After all, the Earth must wait for spring.
No angel ever changed the pace of time.
Goodness is still tucked away below,
Empty as a field asleep in snow,
Like iron in the harshness of that clime
As God is born in frozen Bethlehem.

Angel horses flap their wings
High above the winter night.
Far below an angel sings
Of peace and joy, of love and light.
Down, down, down the horses fly,
Down through stars, across the moon,
Down through clouds and cold, dark sky
To where the angel sings her tune.
And there the angel horses wait,
Listening to her song of love,
Far from home and Heaven's gate,
Far from sweet green fields above,
Listening to the angel's song,
So beautiful it makes them weep,
Hovering over us all night long
While we are fast asleep.

Calendars may mark the tides of love
However, please recall that love's the sea.
Rest easy, then, in Christmas' sweet madness,
Illumined by the pregnant star of gladness,
Serene within the depths of you and me.
There is no pain no happiness can move,
Making room for cherished company,
Antidote for life's incumbent sadness
So long as will and wisdom puissant prove.

Can anyone explain the glow of Christmas?
Holidays are candles in the night.
Rebirth comes from family and friends
In one bright blur of food and talk that ends
Still burning as a peaceful inner light.
There is no way to substitute for Christmas.
Miss it and no circumstance feels right.
All my heart's with you, yet I must miss this
Season thick with love and rich delight.

Can anyone love Christmas who's not Christian?
How, if one does not believe in Christ?
Remember that in life no truth is certain.
In loving beauty, doubt is quite all right.
So one can see the beauty of the story
That God came down to Earth in human form.
Maybe all can share the hope and glory
Angels sang of when that child was born,
Singing songs of joy on Christmas morn.

Can the wind across the snow
Howl enough of frozen pain?
Return to where the children go.
In love and hope begin again.
So did Christ return to Earth
That lovers might renew their love.
May all your longing bring to birth
A passion that no wind can move,
So strong no wind can stronger prove.

Candles are a gift of light,
A tiny sun, a bit of star.
No other dancer in the night
Dances with such sheer delight,
Little souls serene and bright,
Each a glimpse of what we are
Shining innocent and pure.

Charity begins where interest ends,
Having little interest but in giving,
Removing self from self, that there be space
In which a much-loved guest might feel at home.
So might one find delight, though ravens rend
The unembroidered fabric of one's being:
Miracle of unrequited grace,
A wave of wonder welling up from stone,
Singing as it breaks of selfless grieving.

Cheer is not what you'd expect from Christmas:
Headaches are more like it, lack of sleep,
Raw nerves, rough words, waits to make you weep,
Irritable hours, days, intense, relentless.
So much money, time, so many dreams
Tied to one quick wanton winter's morning,
More an orgy than a merry dawning,
A ritual divorced from what it means.
Still, each year the love within it gleams.

Christmas is a holiday for friends,
However they may be, or not, related.
Remember that the three wise kings were strangers
In search of one remote, uncanny dream.
So may we all be far more than we seem,
Together bound for dark and haunting changes,
More lovely for the loves we have created
Along the lonely paths from means to ends,
Stumbling towards that star of Bethlehem.

Christmas is a song of joy and love,
However it is sung, however rendered,
Rich source of childhood pleasures that will prove
In later life a lesson long remembered.
So may you share the joys of Christmas time,
Though still a child, by giving more and more,
Making child and adult combine
As slowly, slowly you approach that door,
Surer of what giving might be for.

Christmas is a time for love and fun,
A time to reshape souls and roots and skies,
A time to give your heart to everyone
Freely, like a rich and lavish sun,
Like a burning star to those whose lonely sighs
Show need of such a time for love and fun.
For children first, whose pain is never done,
Whose bright white fire of anguish never dies,
It's time to give your heart to every one,
That not one angel fall, to hatred won
For lack of ears to listen to her cries,
Or arms to carry him towards love and fun,
Or friends to care what happens on the run
To adult life, where joy or sadness lies.
It's time to give your heart to everyone,
For God loves all, and turns His back on none,
Good or twisted, ignorant or wise.
Christmas is a time for love and fun,
A time to give your heart to everyone.

Christmas is a time of little time.
How we get there is a mystery.
Racing madly mall-to-mall, we climb
Into fields of sunlit harmony.
Shopping, cooking, clearing walks and yards,
Trimming house and tree while working, too   ;
Making phone calls, wrapping, writing cards,
As all worn out we do what we must do
So that this day of joy might joy renew.

Christmas is as Christmas does.
How one lived is how life was.
Rejoicing is what brings one joy.
Inner winds one's spirits buoy.
So must one create each year
The fit occasion for one's cheer,
Making Christmas beautiful,
A duty more than dutiful,
Sustaining what one holds most dear.

Christmas is for cowards, too, and thieves.
How might they be loved as dearest friends?
Redemption starts where satisfaction ends.
Instinctively, one does as one believes.
So did Christ love everyone the same
That everyone might love the same as He.
Most children that are loved will loving be
As they become the people they became.
So shall you love all creatures in His name.

Christmas isn't easy far apart.
Holidays are an incessant bell
Ringing through the hollows of the heart,
Invading passages I know too well.
So does Christmas trespass on my sadness,
Taking precious room I save for you.
Missing you is a reclusive madness,
Altering each harmony and hue,
Shadowing each shade I vacant view.

Christmas really isn't about toys,
However much we love them, young and old.
Reductions in the fat of Christmas Day
In time restore its vigor and its health.
So let us with more care consume our wealth,
Though children should have toys with which to play.
More sweet and joyous music must be sung,
And thoughts of peace and mercy make their way
Silent and uncluttered through the noise.

Christmas should be always in one's heart,
Home for joys one never should outgrow,
Rich memories, a source of inner art,
Implanted in whatever one might know.
Sing, then, a melody of joy and love,
Twin columns holding up the holiday,
Making life, however it might prove,
A song of angels sung by mortal clay
So sweetly it seems all one needs to say.

Cold comfort in the chastity of sorrow,
Having turned in pain towards innocence,
Reaching through the madness for the marrow,
Intent, for once, on yielding all pretence   ;
Sensing the necessity of love
Though feeling none but hunger well within,
Meaning nothing more than one might prove
As one finds little proof in death and sin:
So it was one night in Bethlehem.

Come to Christmas with clean hands and heart,
Having dressed appropriately within,
Ready happily to play your part
In making Christmas joyful yet again.
Sing the ancient melodies that bring
To life the season's harmony and peace.
Maybe you'll with friends and family sing,
As for one moment want and worry cease
So that your love for living might take wing.

Could there be angels waiting in the wings,
How might we call upon their ecstasy?
Rainbows are not visible on days
In which we are the glory and the light.
So may we hear the songs our sunshine sings,
The music that adorns our winsome ways       ;
May we know how good it is to be
As we celebrate the holidays,
So much in love we weep as angels might.

Crazy Christmas! Angels falling
Down like snowflakes from the sky.
Hear their joyful calling, calling
Each to each as they go by.
"Peace on Earth! Good will to all!"
They sing on this cold Christmas Eve.
Oh, my child, heed their call,
And in Creation's good believe.
For angels know far more than we,
And every word they say is true.
So with them join in joyfully,
And sing to them, as they to you.

Each of us might follow a bright star,
Perhaps to a redemptive revelation,
Intending, then, to change the way things are,
Passionate to socialize salvation.
However, please beware of what you do:
Ambition, even selfless, can turn sour.
No truth fits all, though burning inside you,
Yearning less for paradise than power.

Each year again the gifts are given gladly,
Perhaps because one wants to be a gift.
In goods there can be good, yet sometimes, sadly,
People get the thing but not the drift.
How could the wise men come without a token,
A gift to give the child, new born a king?
Nor could their words speak as their gifts had spoken,
Yielding love incarnate in a thing.

Eager for a miracle, one sees
Plainly and precisely as one wills,
Immersed in purposes, plans, goals, needs, desires,
Peering through the window of a dream.
How might one see right through the way things seem,
Adjusting for the light of inner fires?
Numbers measure what the measure kills.
Yet some truths are best planted on one's knees.

Every child might redeem your soul,
Put your sins to right, unclasp your heart,
Invade your fantasies and make them whole,
Prepare you to perform your destined part.
Here is your Bethlehem, where from afar,
Alight with faith and love you've made your way.
Nor would you be a king but for that star
You knew would lead to where your purpose lay.

Every moment is a revelation
Placed behind the scrim of what one sees.
In every unremarkable sensation,
Poised to dance, some truth awaits a breeze.
How might one then step behind the veil,
Alive in ways one was not meant to live?
None can bear such beauty long, nor fail,
Yet yearning, to revere what grace might give.

Everyone loves Christmas,
Even flies and fleas,
Even seals and snakes and snails,
Beavers, bats, and bees.
Elephants love Christmas,
And hamsters, horses, hares,
Penguins, parrots, porpoises,
Belugas, bedbugs, bears.
Don't you just love Christmas?
All the world's at peace.
Wolves lie down with walruses
While goats give gifts to geese.

Evidence of paradise
Veils its rainbowed wings,
Enters life like one of us,
Like spirit wrapped in things.
Yet angels sing in Bethlehem
No more than in Mobile,
And kings careen through Rocky Mount
No less than through Jezreel.
Dream, then, of the bitter wind,
Nights for which one yearns
In sorrow and unsullied joy,
Child on whom life turns,
Older than the universe,
Love haunting, hurting, healing, worse,
An anguished joy one can't reverse
So long as blood still burns.

Glad tidings are a coat of many colors,
Lest warmth be the only use for clothes.
A moment of redemption is a blessing
Derived from generations of cross dressing,
The product of choice cloth from these and those,
In each of which are gnostic strips of others.
Deeper than the dreams of doting mothers,
In seas that lie beneath the ancient floes,
Neither touched nor untouched by transgressing,
Gripped alone by naked grace, one grows
Silent in the synagogue of lovers.

Grace comes unexpectedly
In barns on bitter nights,
Ultimately ordinary
Lest we claim our rights.
Invisible to those who see,
A veil to those who know,
No miracle or mystery
Descends to us below        ;
Just immanence immaculate
Awake within our sleep,
Salient as a centipede
Out strolling on a heap,
Not strange enough to keep.

Hanukkah and Christmas go together,
A pair of holidays quite complementary,
Pleased to have become more elementary,
Pleased to have become birds of a feather.
Yet once, of course, they were antagonistic,
Having more to do with their religions,
On which they long depended for their visions,
Lest faith become increasingly heuristic.
In our time, the holidays are friends,
Delivered by the same inclusive heaven,
A pair of pastries all puffed up with leaven,
Yeasted well for mercenary ends,
Sweetened well to bind once-bitter blends.

Hanumas is something strange indeed:
A Hanukkah and Christmas in one night!
Now mixed families must combine the two,
Uniting loved ones just as God would do,
Making separate flames a single light.
All who love by love are thenceforth freed
Simply in all love to find delight.

How lovely 'tis to take this time
To greet our dearest friends,
To wish them health and happiness
Before the old year ends.
Darkness comes late afternoon
And winter lies ahead,
But friendship is a glowing fire
When all seems cold and dead.
Just as in some vacant barn,
Unnoticed in the night,
The whole of human history turns,
So we, too, make things right.
We must keep alive the flame
Though darkness grip the Earth     ;
For in the love we find in friends
Is our chance for rebirth.

I want you to be here with me for Christmas,
Even if you leave your heart at home.
I know that lately my love makes you restless,
But it's too hard to spend this time alone.
My love for you is like the Christmas season:
Joyful, yet with knowledge of the end.
My need for you has neither hope nor reason:
If not a lover, please, just be a friend.
Please, just be a friend, and come to me
When all the world is bright with love and song.
You are my pillar and my fantasy,
My earth and yet the sky for which I long.
My need for you, of course, is mine, not yours,
Nor need you answer me but out of love.
This is the season when we open doors
To let in those whose need our hearts might move.
And after Christmas you may go your way
To leave me with my sadness and my dreams.
I have no right to bother you to stay,
Knowing how your heart, unaltered, leans.
I want you to be here with me for Christmas,
Even if you leave your heart at home.
What you decide, and why, is not my business,
But still for me it's hard to be alone.

I'm your Christmas tree, all brightly lit,
Hung with angels, colored balls, and elves.
Underneath my boughs your presents sit,
If you've behaved yourselves.
Why must we wait till early Christmas morn
To open up our brand-new games and toys?
Why gifts for us the day that Christ was born
If we're good girls and boys?
Now listen to your Christmas tree: I'm wise
In all the ways of faith that you must know.
I'm here because of what I symbolize:
Green through ice and snow.
There is a world beyond what we can see
Where, by grace of God, we can receive
God's greatest gift: to live eternally,
If only we believe.
Eternal life is what God gave to you
By sending down His son to live on Earth.
This was His gift, so Santa brings gifts, too,
To celebrate Christ's birth.
The baby Jesus got gifts on this day
Because, like any child, He loved to play.
And so God wants to share this special joy
With every girl and boy.
Believe God loves you as your parents do,
And takes great joy in giving gifts to you.
Live well and love, and evergreen like me,
You'll live eternally.

If all were now as it was when
Christ came to save us all,
And Christmas Day were Christmas Day,
Not some day we recall                ;

And in the East we saw a star
Exceptionally bright,
And wondered what was going on
That ordinary night                   ;
If God were walking in our midst,
Saying what He said,
And we were not His followers,
But trod where He would tread         ;
And we were witness to His word
And looked Him in the eye,
And found His message interesting
But too bizarre to buy                ;
If we were in Jerusalem
And watched Him bear the cross,
And suffered with His suffering
But feared to share His loss          ;
And saw Him die in agony,
And wondered at it all,
And this were something we ourselves,
Not printed books, recall:
What would be the difference,
Had we known Him that way,
Between the faith we feared to feel
And what we fear today?

Isn't it nice to celebrate twice --
Christmas and Hanukkah?
To follow the ways of both holidays,
Lucky to be who you are?
On each of eight nights a candle to light,
Till all of them are aglow,
A moment of love in memory of
A light that was lit long ago.
And then there's a tree to trim lovingly,
And presents beneath it to leave,
An evergreen tree for a life that will be
Eternal, at least some believe.
So celebrate twice 'mid the cold rain and ice
Two holidays often apart.
But put together, despite the harsh weather,
They bring twice the warmth to the heart.

It's great to read!
Now we can wish
You Merry Christmas
Just like this!
We can be
Far away
But you can read
What we say.
So Merry Christmas
Little One!
We hope you have
A lot of fun!

Make not much of what you're missing ;
Each gets gifts as they come due.
Rest assured, regarding wishing:
Riches are reserved for you.
Years of want require wanting        ;
Christmas gives what one receives.
Happiness ought not seem daunting,
Renting space in what one grieves.
In your heart is all you need,
Sustained by giving it away.
Though you burn and break and bleed,
Mere suffering's no place to stay.
As you are is as you will,
Sure of winds that wish you well.

Make the most of every Christmas morning
Even when the weather's not so clear.
Riches come and go with little warning,
Rendered only to what souls are there.
Yet some would spend their Christmas at hard labor,
Choosing to ignore the gifts of grace,
Having much, though little that they savor,
Resigned to serve the lords of time and place.
In Christmas there is work and there is pleasure,
So interfused one cannot separate
The labor from the loving, common treasure
Made from giving, much beloved weight,
A burden and a blessing both, that one
Should relish till the precious day is done.

Mary at midnight, the babe in her arms:
Ever the myth makes its way to the heart.
Reason gives way to desire and art,
Rendered quite mute by the quake of its qualms.
Yes, of course there are angels filling the sky!
Choirs of angels - how could there not be?
Heavenly hosts like a luminous sea
Rejoicing as God comes to Earth from on high!
Is this true? I mean really? As true as my thumb?
Sense has a way of making no sense.
The value of each soul needs a defense.
Maybe a sign can be more than a sum.
Angels sing daily as humans do ill.
So sing with them! Sing! Of peace and good will!

May this Christmas be the first of many,
Each more joyous in our growing love,
Revealing more of happiness than any
Riches might provide or pain remove.
Years flow like an unrepentant river,
Carrying the soil of life away,
Holding far more than they can deliver,
Rushing past the certitudes that stay.
In love there is an instance of forever
So shy and lovely it eludes the eye,
The sense of being home when we're together,
More enduring than a reason why.
As love is born of passion, borne by will,
So may for many years we choose love still.

May you feel such love as lights the morning
Even at this darkest time of year:
Rippling through your heart with little warning,
Returning you to wonder and to fear.
You cannot will yourself to feel such love       ;
Christmas is a gift of unsought grace.
However much you may your spirit move,
Redemption chooses whom it will embrace.
In you may there be radiance and beauty
Such that you might never hope to see,
Taking as its home some common duty
Made lovely by a will sustained and free.
As you become a vessel for this light,
So may you know its pain and its delight.

May you find this Christmas inner peace
Equal to the patient love you give,
Releasing all the pain you can release,
Renewing all the grace with which you live.
Yearnings may you turn to rhapsodies,
Choosing to find happiness in beauty,
Holding in their haunting melodies
Riches that sustain your sense of duty.
In anger may you find an evening star
Showing you the way to Bethlehem.
The angels that watch naked from afar
May you hear sing of who would none condemn.
As all you love are blessed in having you,
So may you feel the joy in all you do.

May you walk among the stars of morning,
Eden waiting silent for the dawn,
Ready to unravel without warning,
Restless with the urge to be reborn.
Years of longing pale into beauty            ;
Christmas is a never-realized dream.
However much devoted to your duty,
Remember that the flow is not the stream.
In my heart you wear a crown of glory
So radiant that time must turn away.
The vision rises from the untold story
More lovely than what sees the light of day.
As you can never know just who you are,
So let my love become your eastern star.

Maybe Christmas means a little less
Each year as the enchantment wears away.
Remember that one key to happiness
Remains the joy one feels on Christmas Day.
Years of faith in Santa Claus became
Childhood's best encouragement to dream,
Having given fantasy a name
Real enough to seem to more than seem.
In memories of wonder, awe, and pleasure,
Sustained by celebrations every year,
There's a magic one might always treasure,
Making one's delight seem far more dear.
As childhood fades, let Christmas not fade, too,
So that its joy can still reside in you.

Maybe Merry Christmas isn't merry.
Everything can't work out every year.
Reveling on holidays is very
Rough on those a little short of cheer.
Yet life goes on, and what was once consuming
Comes slowly to dissolve in humdrum days.
Hope returns, its rightful place resuming.
Rivers run their long and winding ways.
Instead of pain, one comes to revelation.
So does one not bury the remains,
Trading raw estrangement for relation,
Melding losses into harder gains.
As you are less than merry, with good reason,
So may you still find solace in the season.

Maybe there's no magic in the morning,
Even at the dawn of Christmas Day.
Remember that life changes without warning,
Revealing what it will in its own way.
Years ago the world just seemed to dance.
Christmas shimmered in the rising sun.
Happiness was savored in advance,
Rich in treasured memories to come.
In every moment still that joy survives,
Still skipping like a child down the street.
There is a silent lilt to all our lives,
Music that no sorrow can defeat.
As Christmas once made magical the dawn,
So one's joy in life can be reborn.

Maybe there's no magic to the morning.
Eventually, life's a losing game.
Rituals go stale with little warning.
Revelation shrivels to a name.
Yet once each moment was a miracle.
Christmas touched the unsuspecting heart,
Home and Heaven equally empirical,
Reality a play of sense and art.
In everyone that child is still dreaming,
Still living in a world shaped by desire.
Truth is not the fruit of sense but meaning,
More varied than one's reason might require.
As sunlight gleams according to one's view,
So may the magic of this day touch you.

Maybe we need another miracle.
Each epoch ought to have one of its own,
Reducing skeptics to a single groan,
Renewing faith with evidence empirical.
Yes, we need fresh testimony lyrical,
Changing hearts that else would change to stone,
Healing those who, hearing, would atone,
Replacing reason with a canticle.
If only God would visit us again,
Showing us for sure His patient love,
Taking on our sins a second time!
Maybe we could be quite certain then,
Ablaze with what our faith would outright prove,
So for ourselves to witness the sublime.

Melodies of Christmas wait all year,
Eager to renew their joyous song,
Ready to transmit infectious cheer,
Restive after resting all year long.
Yet when they finally fill the crisp, cold air,
Caroling across the crowded streets,
Harmonies one cannot help but share,
Resonant with rhymes the heart repeats,
Instantly, it seems, the season ends,
So soon the sounds of celebration fade.
The family gatherings and time with friends
Make way as cold, dark everydays invade.
Alas, the melodies' brief hour has fled!
Sleep well, sweet carols, through the year ahead.

Merely being is a miracle.
Each is both aware and unaware.
Running underneath one's thoughts, a canticle
Repeats one's silent gratitude as prayer.
Yet life does not allow for much devotion,
Claustrophobic in its constant need.
Hunger puts the mind in constant motion,
Reckoning the harvest from the seed.
In ritual and art one finds a moment
Still enough to peer into the deep,
To see beneath the will the wonderment,
Music of such joy that one must weep.
As angels sing, so sing that you might hear
Silence that no mortal long can bear.

Merry Christmas!
Isn't it fun
To say "Merry Christmas"
To everyone?
Time for a party
And presents and things
That make children happy
And give their hearts wings!

Merry Christmas from your paper boy!
The news is good -- of love and peace and joy!
As usual, I leave it at your door
With hope the coming new year will bring more.

Merry Christmas to my darling wife!
Enduring love makes much of holidays,
Rituals that mark the grace of life,
Refrains of old, familiar roundelays.
Years fall into rhythms that repeat,
Creating opportunities to dance.
Hard as life might be, the hour is sweet,
Returning us to choreographed romance.
In this moment of expected cheer,
Still in love, I tell you once again
That I am ever blessed to have you here,
My partner in our journey to the wind.
Again, again, the season has its way,
Singing what I else too rarely say.

Merry Christmas to my love!
Enjoy the holiday!
Revel where the angels move,
Rejoice in what they say!
Years burn life down to a stub     ;
Christmas comes and goes.
Happiness lies at the nub,
Refuse of one's woes.
Inside the husk there is the seed,
Shivering with glory               ;
The midnight cold, the dire need,
Mere setting for the story.
All the labor, loss, and pain
Sings of beauty born again.

Merry Christmas to my wife!
Enduring partner of my life,
Reigning mistress of my art,
Rightful ruler of my heart,
Yearning for whom there's no end,
Comrade, lover, fortune, friend,
Here in soul and here in flesh,
Ripe for passion, ripe for rest,
Intellect and interface,
Soulmate, playmate, glint of grace,
Tamer of my instincts wild,
Mother of my inner child,
As I would father be of yours,
Sharing life through open doors.

Merry Christmas to the one I love,
Even on this day of love for all,
Remembering the love of one whose call
Redeemed all those whose hearts his love might move.
Yet only one love does my spirit prove,
Chosen in a passion like a squall,
Having in such ecstasy withal
Rejoiced in what we were created of.
In such love do we find our way outdoors,
So to be drawn to love of flesh and soul,
Traveling beyond our village green,
Moving towards the wash along our shores
As our love joins the greater love unseen,
Shining with dark passion on the whole.

Midnight miracles make quiet mornings.
Even God sleeps peaceful on the breast.
Restless nights result in dreamy dawnings,
Revelations ripe for sunlit rest.
Years of love lie drowsy, slug-a-bed.
Choices seem to snuggle, sleeping in.
Holiness is happiness instead,
Rich in all that gathers grace within.
In love of God or man, the Earth must turn.
Songs of angels come in troubled times.
The miracle of witness one must earn,
Moving to transfigure one's own crimes.
As faith and love require restful sleep,
So, too, must they their midnight vigils keep.

Mind is not the medium for joy.
Each word should be a bell within the heart,
Ringing like a wind-tossed, wave-tossed buoy,
Restless in the grip of polished art.
Years should be a cry of sculpted stone            ;
Christmases long past, an oak-voiced choir,
Harmonies that hollow out the bone,
Rich with longing, reckless with desire.
If meaning but had meaning, words would be
Salient as the resonance of brass,
Tearing chunks of glory from the sea,
Melting steel with love for things that pass.
All I would, I could to you convey
Should I find words that might such non-words say.

Miracles have a way of making news.
Even skeptics stare at parted seas.
Religious or not--Christians, Muslims, Jews--
Resurrection brings them to their knees!
Years ago, miracles were in vogue:
Christ and Moses wowed the willing crowds       ;
Holy icons healed both saint and rogue          ;
Rare wonders were ascribed to cups and shrouds.
In our time miracles are everyday,
So few can hope to grab us, or astound.
The mysteries that clutter up our way
May seem much more perplexing than profound.
And yet life is miraculous: to be
Surpasses any wonder we might see.

Morning never comes on Christmas Day!
Eons pass and still the sun won't rise!
Running late, the parents check closed eyes,
Retrieving gifts they long had hid away.
Years pass too quickly                        ; loves and friendships stray.
Christmas comes and goes                      ; the magic dies.
Happiness is hard and elsewhere lies.
Reality erodes one's sense of play.
Innocence remains a memory,
Sustaining hope and faith in later years,
The gift of what the child once believed.
Morning comes, of course, eventually,
As dreams give way to deep and unshed tears,
Still waiting for a glory long since grieved.

Mothers mean much more on Christmas day,
Even though they're loved the whole year round.
Rich memories lie knee-deep on the ground,
Recalling years when gifts unopened lay,
Years of Christmases near wild with play,
Christmases of dreams unwrapped and crowned,
Happiness with wings and joy unbound,
Reveling in myths time would betray.
In you there lies the spirit of pure giving,
Sweetness that finds pleasure in my smile,
The gift I can reopen every year.
More than my own, I find your heart forgiving,
A home where I am welcome all the while,
So I can rest assured, for you are near.

Mysteries are often most mundane.
Every child is a child of God.
Revelation tends to come roughshod,
Rudely lying in, in Bethlehem.
Yet if God walked the Earth and then was slain,
Coming, like us all, encased in sod,
His holiness wrapped wholly in a clod,
Reason could not such a case sustain.
In faith alone can miracles be true,
Summoned to a certain time and place
To crack the mountain open to its well.
Mysteries hide Being from our view
As some go out to greet it face to face.
So it was one time in Israel.

Myths are hopes refracted through our pain:
Each ray of justice bends into a bow
Resplendent, pure, symmetrical and sane,
Resolving into grace the world we know.
Yes, God walked among us out of love         ;
Christ suffered horribly that we might live  ;
His holy spirit watches, as a dove
Remains aloft, to witness and forgive.
In love the earth returns a special fire:
Sapphires linger in disheveled grass         ;
The snow burns eagerly                       ; the blood runs higher;
Mountains melt into astonished brass.
All who love revere this sacred art,
Stunned and weeping at joy's battered heart.

No Christmas for my children,
No husband for my bed,
No money for tomorrow,
No place to lay my head,
No tree with mounds of presents,
No ornaments or lights,
No smiles on Christmas morning,
No feast on Christmas night,
No toys to ease the boredom
Of hours before closed doors,
No family celebrations,
No trips to crowded stores,
No fireplace, no Santa,
No games aglow with friends,
No fire but feeble fury
As Christmas slowly ends.
For me I have no pity,
My sorrow stronger proves,
Because for my sweet children
I've nothing but my love.

Nothing is, but what is evident.
In truth, the truth appears but to the eye.
Could one but understand what might be meant,
Opening one's heart to pure intent,
Love the answer to one's what or why,
Angels would towards Bethlehem be bent:
So one might believe, though gingerly.

Perhaps it was the wind that sang like angels
Anchored in a star-besotted sky,
Ululating round right-reasoned corners,
Lunging at three kings careening by,
Abroad with wonder, not quite knowing why.

Pets are for life, not just for Christmas.
Each of us waits for the joy of a home.
Take one of us in and you'll never go kissless,
So long as you treat us as one of your own.

Santa lights the Hanukkah lights
Eight days in a row,
As Jews sing carols winter nights,
Songs they love and know.
Out of many, one, but one
Need not reduce one's faith.
Some love love, wherever from,
Glad to share the grace.
Remember that identity
Endures through love alone.
Exclusive faith eventually
Turns loving hearts to stone.
Into your well-chosen cup
Now pour a blended soul,
Giving not one blessing up,
Savoring the whole.

The Druids thought the mistletoe
Would stop the meanest witches,
Cure the most severe disease,
Keep cradles safe from switches.
Enemies laid down their arms
Beneath its pungent spell.
For one whole day they could not fight,
Though hatred fire the will.
In later centuries it served
To force a willing kiss.
For those reluctant on their own
It was the door to bliss.
Today it is a symbol of
The mystic powers of Earth,
For when the sun's about to die
In love we find rebirth.

There is no better bonus than just you,
Of more immediate and lasting worth.
Though self-denying, what we say is true,
Having knowledge of the good you do,
Even as the turning of the Earth
Brings forth hopes and resolutions new.
Of benevolent bosses sing, for there are few!
Sing, O sing, at the year's rebirth,
Songs of gentle hearts and grateful mirth!

Though this may be our Christmas last,
It is a time of cheer.
We dance within a theater vast,
Yet live from year to year.
All that we have shared remains
As memory when we're gone,
Just as a house, though long since dust,
Remains, through love, a home.
And so we lift this glass of joy
Once more on Christmas Eve,
For time ought not such times destroy,
Nor gifts untimely leave.

Three holidays! Hooray! Hooray!
Chanukah, Christmas, and New Year's Day!
And we celebrate all three
'Cause we're a lucky family.
Jewish, Christian, American,
We cherish all the days we can,
Loving all, and not just one,
'Cause all of them are lots of fun!

To you a season of melodious tidings.
In darkness may life be a lovely flame.
Now the year turns back towards warmth and passion
As all our dying dreams are born again.

Evil knight, wholly night,
Vests his dough in a young nerd bright.
Even so, the malevolent childe
Loses his shirt in a downturn mild,
Yielding his sword and his piece.
Now we will never have peace.
Angels often herd on high,
Nodding nimbly all the day.
God says little in reply,
Echoing what actors say:
Less is more-o-o-o-o-or-o-o-o-o-or-o-o-o-o-oria,
As one seeks my way-o,
Less is more-o-o-o-o-or-o-o-o-o-or-o-o-o-o-oria,
As one seeks my way-ay-o.
There is no well, the angels did say,
In search of a hot tub in which they might play,
Nor mo-ore than one bloke to manage the sheep,
A lover of Oprah, demented but deep.
No well, no well, no well, no well,
We need a hot tub in Israel,
No well, no well, no well, no well,
We need a hot tub in Israel!
Praised be the shoppers, toyful and triumphant,
And the package tourists bound for the Caribbean.
Underneath their passions, they would all be angels,
Hoping to adore Him,
Hoping to adore Him,
Hoping to adore Him,
While serving other Lords.
Give us what we're asking for, or we will you dismay.
In Heaven God may reign, but we want toys on Christmas Day!
Unless you do, some things you cherish well might go astray,
Like that Longines watch that long has been your joy, long your joy,
If you don't give in, you just might lose your toy!

What does Santa bring for daddies,
Too old to want a toy?
Wallets, watches, ties, and sweaters
Don't make for much joy.
What do daddies want for Christmas,
Really, in their hearts?
So perfect that they'd shriek like kids
Once the shredding starts?
Oh, Daddy! Is there anything
You want beneath the tree?
Other than, of course, to watch
Me open gifts for me?

When death must come at Christmastime,
There is a special grief,
A mourning that must mix with joy,
A pain that must be brief.
There is an anguish underneath
The labyrinth of light
That longs for simple emptiness
To contemplate the night.
But life must bubble on its way
And pleasure be put on,
For neither sorrow nor delight
Is ever left alone.
And, like the Virgin, we must smile
With enigmatic grace
As we receive the fragile gift
That nothing can replace.

’Twas the night before Christmas, when all thro’ the house,
Not a creature was stirring, not even a mouse                   ;
The stockings were hung by the chimney with care,
In hopes that St. Nicholas soon would be there                  ;
The children were nestled all snug in their beds,
While visions of sugar plums danc’d in their heads,
And Mama in her ‘kerchief, and I in my cap,
Had just settled our brains for a long winter’s nap —
When out on the lawn there arose such a clatter,
I sprang from the bed to see what was the matter.
Away to the window I flew like a flash,
Tore open the shutters, and threw up the sash.
The moon on the breast of the new fallen snow,
Gave the lustre of mid-day to objects below                     ;
When, what to my wondering eyes should appear,
But a miniature sleigh, and eight tiny rein-deer,
With a little old driver, so lively and quick,
I knew in a moment it must be St. Nick.
More rapid than eagles his coursers they came,
And he whistled, and shouted, and call’d them by name:
“Now! Dasher, now! Dancer, now! Prancer, and Vixen,
“On! Comet, on! Cupid, on! Dunder and Blixem                  ;
“To the top of the porch! to the top of the wall!
“Now dash away! dash away! dash away all!”
As dry leaves before the wild hurricane fly,
When they meet with an obstacle, mount to the sky               ;
So up to the house-top the coursers they flew,
With the sleigh full of Toys — and St. Nicholas too:
And then in a twinkling, I heard on the roof
The prancing and pawing of each little hoof.
As I drew in my head, and was turning around,
Down the chimney St. Nicholas came with a bound:
He was dress’d all in fur, from his head to his foot,
And his clothes were all tarnish’d with ashes and soot        ;
A bundle of toys was flung on his back,
And he look’d like a peddler just opening his pack:
His eyes — how they twinkled! his dimples how merry,
His cheeks were like roses, his nose like a cherry              ;
His droll little mouth was drawn up like a bow.
And the beard of his chin was as white as the snow              ;
The stump of a pipe he held tight in his teeth,
And the smoke it encircled his head like a wreath.
He had a broad face, and a little round belly
That shook when he laugh’d, like a bowl full of jelly:
He was chubby and plump, a right jolly old elf,
And I laugh’d when I saw him in spite of myself               ;
A wink of his eye and a twist of his head
Soon gave me to know I had nothing to dread.
He spoke not a word, but went straight to his work,
And fill’d all the stockings                                  ; then turn’d with a jerk,
And laying his finger aside of his nose
And giving a nod, up the chimney he rose.
He sprung to his sleigh, to his team gave a whistle,
And away they all flew, like the down of a thistle:
But I heard him exclaim, ere he drove out of sight —
Happy Christmas to all, and to all a good night.

The first day of Christmas,
My true love sent to me
A partridge in a pear tree.
The second day of Christmas,
My true love sent to me
Two turtle doves, and
A partridge in a pear tree.
The third day of Christmas,
My true love sent to me
Three French hens,
Two turtle doves, and
A partridge in a pear tree.
The fourth day of Christmas,
My true love sent to me
Four colly birds,
Three French hens,
Two turtle doves, and
A partridge in a pear tree.
The fifth day of Christmas,
My true love sent to me
Five gold rings,
Four colly birds,
Three French hens,
Two turtle doves, and
A partridge in a pear tree.
The sixth day of Christmas,
My true love sent to me
Six geese a-laying,
Five gold rings,
Four colly birds,
Three French hens,
Two turtle doves, and
A partridge in a pear tree.
The seventh day of Christmas,
My true love sent to me
Seven swans a-swimming,
Six geese a-laying,
Five gold rings,
Four colly birds,
Three French hens,
Two turtle doves, and
A partridge in a pear tree.
The eighth day of Christmas,
My true love sent to me
Eight maids a-milking,
Seven swans a-swimming,
Six geese a-laying,
Five gold rings,
Four colly birds,
Three French hens,
Two turtle doves, and
A partridge in a pear tree.
The ninth day of Christmas,
My true love sent to me
Nine drummers drumming,
Eight maids a-milking,
Seven swans a-swimming,
Six geese a-laying,
Five gold rings,
Four colly birds,
Three French hens,
Two turtle doves, and
A partridge in a pear tree.
The tenth day of Christmas,
My true love sent to me
Ten pipers piping,
Nine drummers drumming,
Eight maids a-milking,
Seven swans a-swimming,
Six geese a-laying,
Five gold rings,
Four colly birds,
Three French hens,
Two turtle doves, and
A partridge in a pear tree.
The eleventh day of Christmas
My true love sent to me
Eleven ladies dancing,
Ten pipers piping,
Nine drummers drumming,
Eight maids a-milking,
Seven swans a-swimming,
Six geese a-laying,
Five gold rings,
Four colly birds,
Three French hens,
Two turtle doves, and
A partridge in a pear tree.
The twelfth day of Christmas
My true love sent to me
Twelve fiddlers fiddling,
Eleven ladies dancing,
Ten pipers piping,
Nine drummers drumming,
Eight maids a-milking,
Seven swans a-swimming,
Six geese a-laying,
Five gold rings,
Four colly birds,
Three French hens,
Two turtle doves, and
A partridge in a pear tree.

Hark! the herald Angels sing,
Glory to the new-born King,
Peace on earth and mercy mild,
God and sinner reconcil’d.
Hark! the herald Angels sing,
Glory to the new-born King.
Joyful all ye nations rise,
Join the triumph of the skies,
With the angelic host proclaim,
Christ is born in Bethlehem.
Hark! the herald Angels sing,
Glory to the new-born King.
Christ by highest Heaven ador’d,
Christ the everlasting Lord!
Late in time behold him come,
Offspring of a virgin’s womb.
Hark! the herald Angels sing,
Glory to the new-born King.
Veiled in flesh the Godhead see,
Hail, the incarnate Deity,
Pleased as Man with man to dwell,
Jesus our Immanuel!
Hark! the herald Angels sing,
Glory to the new-born King.
Hail the Heaven-born Prince of Peace!
Hail the Sun of Righteousness!
Light and life to all he brings,
Risen with healing in his wings.
Hark! the herald Angels sing,
Glory to the new-born King.
Mild he lays his glory by,
Born that man no more may die,
Born to raise the sons of earth,
Born to give them second birth.
Hark! the herald Angels sing,
Glory to the new-born King.

Ring out, wild bells, to the wild sky,
The flying cloud, the frosty light:
The year is dying in the night           ;
Ring out, wild bells, and let him die.
Ring out the old, ring in the new,
Ring, happy bells, across the snow:
The year is going, let him go            ;
Ring out the false, ring in the true.
Ring out the grief that saps the mind
For those that here we see no more       ;
Ring out the feud of rich and poor,
Ring in redress to all mankind.
Ring out a slowly dying cause,
And ancient forms of party strife        ;
Ring in the nobler modes of life,
With sweeter manners, purer laws.
Ring out the want, the care, the sin,
The faithless coldness of the times      ;
Ring out, ring out my mournful rhymes
But ring the fuller minstrel in.
Ring out false pride in place and blood,
The civic slander and the spite          ;
Ring in the love of truth and right,
Ring in the common love of good.
Ring out old shapes of foul disease      ;
Ring out the narrowing lust of gold      ;
Ring out the thousand wars of old,
Ring in the thousand years of peace.
Ring in the valiant man and free,
The larger heart, the kindlier hand      ;
Ring out the darkness of the land,
Ring in the Christ that is to be.

Three Kings came riding from far away,
Melchior and Gaspar and Baltasar                         ;
Three Wise Men out of the East were they,
And they travelled by night and they slept by day,
For their guide was a beautiful, wonderful star.
The star was so beautiful, large and clear,
That all the other stars of the sky
Became a white mist in the atmosphere,
And by this they knew that the coming was near
Of the Prince foretold in the prophecy.
Three caskets they bore on their saddle-bows,
Three caskets of gold with golden keys                   ;
Their robes were of crimson silk with rows
Of bells and pomegranates and furbelows,
Their turbans like blossoming almond-trees.
And so the Three Kings rode into the West,
Through the dusk of the night, over hill and dell,
And sometimes they nodded with beard on breast,
And sometimes talked, as they paused to rest,
With the people they met at some wayside well.
“Of the child that is born,” said Baltasar,
“Good people, I pray you, tell us the news             ;
For we in the East have seen his star,
And have ridden fast, and have ridden far,
To find and worship the King of the Jews.”
And the people answered, “You ask in vain              ;
We know of no King but Herod the Great!”
They thought the Wise Men were men insane,
As they spurred their horses across the plain,
Like riders in haste, who cannot wait.
And when they came to Jerusalem,
Herod the Great, who had heard this thing,
Sent for the Wise Men and questioned them                ;
And said, “Go down unto Bethlehem,
And bring me tidings of this new king.”
So they rode away                                        ; and the star stood still,
The only one in the grey of morn                         ;
Yes, it stopped—it stood still of its own free will,
Right over Bethlehem on the hill,
The city of David, where Christ was born.
And the Three Kings rode through the gate and the guard,
Through the silent street, till their horses turned
And neighed as they entered the great inn-yard           ;
But the windows were closed, and the doors were barred,
And only a light in the stable burned.
And cradled there in the scented hay,
In the air made sweet by the breath of kine,
The little child in the manger lay,
The child, that would be king one day
Of a kingdom not human, but divine.
His mother Mary of Nazareth
Sat watching beside his place of rest,
Watching the even flow of his breath,
For the joy of life and the terror of death
Were mingled together in her breast.
They laid their offerings at his feet:
The gold was their tribute to a King,
The frankincense, with its odor sweet,
Was for the Priest, the Paraclete,
The myrrh for the body’s burying.
And the mother wondered and bowed her head,
And sat as still as a statue of stone,
Her heart was troubled yet comforted,
Remembering what the Angel had said
Of an endless reign and of David’s throne.
Then the Kings rode out of the city gate,
With a clatter of hoofs in proud array                   ;
But they went not back to Herod the Great,
For they knew his malice and feared his hate,
And returned to their homes by another way.

Good King Wenceslas look’d out,
On the Feast of Stephen                ;
When the snow lay round about,
Deep, and crisp, and even:
Brightly shone the moon that night,
Though the frost was cruel,
When a poor man came in sight,
Gath’ring winter fuel.
“Hither page and stand by me,
If thou know’st it, telling,
Yonder peasant, who is he?
Where and what his dwelling?”
“Sire, he lives a good league hence.
Underneath the mountain                ;
Right against the forest fence,
By Saint Agnes’ fountain.”
“Bring me flesh,and bring me wine,
Bring me pine-logs hither:
Thouand I will see him dine,
When we bear them thither.”
Page and monarch forth they went,
Forth they went together               ;
Through the rudewind’s wild lament,
And the bitter weather.
“Sire, the night is darker now,
And the wind blows stronger            ;
Fails my heart, I know now how,
I can go no longer.”
“Mark my footsteps, good my page     ;
Tread thou in them boldly              ;
Thou shalt find the winter’s rage
Freeze thy blood less coldly.”
In his master’s steps he trod,
Where the snow lay dinted              ;
Heat was in the very sod
Which the Saint had printed.
Therefore, Christian men, be sure,
Wealth or rank possessing,
Ye who now will bless the poor,
Shall yourselves find blessing.

This is the month, and this the happy morn,
Wherein the Son of Heav'n's eternal King,
Of wedded Maid, and Virgin Mother born,
Our great redemption from above did bring                  ;
For so the holy sages once did sing,
That he our deadly forfeit should release,
And with his Father work us a perpetual peace.
That glorious Form, that Light unsufferable,
And that far-beaming blaze of Majesty,
Wherewith he wont at Heav'n's high council-table,
To sit the midst of Trinal Unity,
He laid aside, and here with us to be,
Forsook the courts of everlasting day,
And chose with us a darksome house of mortal clay.
Say Heav'nly Muse, shall not thy sacred vein
Afford a present to the Infant God?
Hast thou no verse, no hymn, or solemn strain,
To welcome him to this his new abode,
Now while the heav'n, by the Sun's team untrod,
Hath took no print of the approaching light,
And all the spangled host keep watch in squadrons bright?
See how from far upon the eastern road
The star-led wizards haste with odours sweet:
O run, prevent them with thy humble ode,
And lay it lowly at his blessed feet                       ;
Have thou the honour first thy Lord to greet,
And join thy voice unto the angel quire,
From out his secret altar touch'd with hallow'd fire.
It was the winter wild,
While the Heav'n-born child,
All meanly wrapt in the rude manger lies                   ;
Nature in awe to him
Had doff'd her gaudy trim,
With her great Master so to sympathize:
It was no season then for her
To wanton with the Sun, her lusty paramour.
Only with speeches fair
She woos the gentle air
To hide her guilty front with innocent snow,
And on her naked shame,
Pollute with sinful blame,
The saintly veil of maiden white to throw,
Confounded, that her Maker's eyes
Should look so near upon her foul deformities.
But he, her fears to cease,
Sent down the meek-ey'd Peace:
She, crown'd with olive green, came softly sliding
Down through the turning sphere,
His ready harbinger,
With turtle wing the amorous clouds dividing               ;
And waving wide her myrtle wand,
She strikes a universal peace through sea and land.
No war or battle's sound
Was heard the world around                                 ;
The idle spear and shield were high uphung                 ;
The hooked chariot stood
Unstain'd with hostile blood                               ;
The trumpet spake not to the armed throng                  ;
And kings sate still with awful eye,
As if they surely knew their sovran Lord was by.
But peaceful was the night
Wherein the Prince of Light
His reign of peace upon the earth began:
The winds with wonder whist,
Smoothly the waters kist,
Whispering new joys to the mild Ocean,
Who now hath quite forgot to rave,
While birds of calm sit brooding on the charmed wave.
The Stars with deep amaze
Stand fix'd in steadfast gaze,
Bending one way their precious influence                   ;
And will not take their flight,
For all the morning light,
Or Lucifer that often warn'd them thence,
But in their glimmering orbs did glow,
Until their Lord himself bespake, and bid them go.
And though the shady gloom
Had given day her room,
The Sun himself withheld his wonted speed,
And hid his head for shame,
As his inferior flame
The new-enlighten'd world no more should need:
He saw a greater Sun appear
Than his bright throne or burning axle-tree could bear.
The shepherds on the lawn,
Or ere the point of dawn,
Sate simply chatting in a rustic row                       ;
Full little thought they than
That the mighty Pan
Was kindly come to live with them below:
Perhaps their loves, or else their sheep,
Was all that did their silly thoughts so busy keep         ;
When such music sweet
Their hearts and ears did greet,
As never was by mortal finger strook,
Divinely warbled voice
Answering the stringed noise,
As all their souls in blissful rapture took:
The air such pleasure loth to lose,
With thousand echoes still prolongs each heav'nly close.
Nature, that heard such sound
Beneath the hollow round
Of Cynthia's seat, the Airy region thrilling,
Now was almost won
To think her part was done,
And that her reign had here its last fulfilling:
She knew such harmony alone
Could hold all heav'n and earth in happier union.
At last surrounds their sight
A globe of circular light,
That with long beams the shame-fac'd Night array'd;
The helmed Cherubim
And sworded Seraphim
Are seen in glittering ranks with wings display'd,
Harping in loud and solemn quire,
With unexpressive notes to Heav'n's new-born Heir.
Such music (as 'tis said)
Before was never made,
But when of old the sons of morning sung,
While the Creator great
His constellations set,
And the well-balanc'd world on hinges hung,
And cast the dark foundations deep,
And bid the welt'ring waves their oozy channel keep.
Ring out ye crystal spheres!
Once bless our human ears
(If ye have power to touch our senses so)
And let your silver chime
Move in melodious time,
And let the bass of Heav'n's deep organ blow               ;
And with your ninefold harmony
Make up full consort to th'angelic symphony.
For if such holy song
Enwrap our fancy long,
Time will run back and fetch the age of gold,
And speckl'd Vanity
Will sicken soon and die,
And leprous Sin will melt from earthly mould               ;
And Hell itself will pass away,
And leave her dolorous mansions to the peering Day.
Yea, Truth and Justice then
Will down return to men,
Orb'd in a rainbow                                         ; and, like glories wearing,
Mercy will sit between,
Thron'd in celestial sheen,
With radiant feet the tissu'd clouds down steering         ;
And Heav'n, as at some festival,
Will open wide the gates of her high palace hall.
But wisest Fate says no:
This must not yet be so                                    ;
The Babe lies yet in smiling infancy,
That on the bitter cross
Must redeem our loss,
So both himself and us to glorify:
Yet first to those ychain'd in sleep,
The wakeful trump of doom must thunder through the deep,
With such a horrid clang
As on Mount Sinai rang
While the red fire and smould'ring clouds outbrake:
The aged Earth, aghast
With terror of that blast,
Shall from the surface to the centre shake,
When at the world's last session,
The dreadful Judge in middle air shall spread his throne.
And then at last our bliss
Full and perfect is,
But now begins                                             ; for from this happy day
Th'old Dragon under ground,
In straiter limits bound,
Not half so far casts his usurped sway,
And, wrath to see his kingdom fail,
Swinges the scaly horror of his folded tail.
The Oracles are dumb                                       ;
No voice or hideous hum
Runs through the arched roof in words deceiving.
Apollo from his shrine
Can no more divine,
With hollow shriek the steep of Delphos leaving.
No nightly trance or breathed spell
Inspires the pale-ey'd priest from the prophetic cell.
The lonely mountains o'er,
And the resounding shore,
A voice of weeping heard and loud lament                   ;
From haunted spring, and dale
Edg'd with poplar pale,
The parting Genius is with sighing sent                    ;
With flow'r-inwoven tresses torn
The Nymphs in twilight shade of tangled thickets mourn.
In consecrated earth,
And on the holy hearth,
The Lars and Lemures moan with midnight plaint             ;
In urns and altars round,
A drear and dying sound
Affrights the flamens at their service quaint              ;
And the chill marble seems to sweat,
While each peculiar power forgoes his wonted seat.
Peor and Ba{:a}lim
Forsake their temples dim,
With that twice-batter'd god of Palestine                  ;
And mooned Ashtaroth,
Heav'n's queen and mother both,
Now sits not girt with tapers' holy shine                  ;
The Libyc Hammon shrinks his horn                          ;
In vain the Tyrian maids their wounded Thammuz mourn.
And sullen Moloch, fled,
Hath left in shadows dread
His burning idol all of blackest hue:
In vain with cymbals' ring
They call the grisly king,
In dismal dance about the furnace blue.
The brutish gods of Nile as fast,
Isis and Orus, and the dog Anubis, haste.
Nor is Osiris seen
In Memphian grove or green,
Trampling the unshower'd grass with lowings loud           ;
Nor can he be at rest
Within his sacred chest,
Naught but profoundest Hell can be his shroud:
In vain with timbrel'd anthems dark
The sable-stoled sorcerers bear his worshipp'd ark.
He feels from Juda's land
The dreaded Infant's hand,
The rays of Bethlehem blind his dusky eyn                  ;
Nor all the gods beside
Longer dare abide,
Not Typhon huge ending in snaky twine:
Our Babe, to show his Godhead true,
Can in his swaddling bands control the damned crew.
So when the Sun in bed,
Curtain'd with cloudy red,
Pillows his chin upon an orient wave,
The flocking shadows pale
Troop to th'infernal jail,
Each fetter'd ghost slips to his several grave,
And the yellow-skirted fays
Fly after the night-steeds, leaving their moon-lov'd maze.
But see, the Virgin blest
Hath laid her Babe to rest:
Time is our tedious song should here have ending.
Heav'n's youngest-teemed star,
Hath fix'd her polish'd car,
Her sleeping Lord with handmaid lamp attending             ;
And all about the courtly stable,
Bright-harness'd Angels sit in order serviceable.

Awake, glad heart! get up and sing!
It is the birth-day of thy King.
Awake! awake!
The Sun doth shake
Light from his locks, and all the way
Breathing perfumes, doth spice the day.
Awake, awake! hark how th’ wood rings   ;
Winds whisper, and the busy springs
A concert make                            ;
Awake! awake!
Man is their high-priest, and should rise
To offer up the sacrifice.
I would I were some bird, or star,
Flutt’ring in woods, or lifted far
Above this inn
And road of sin!
Then either star or bird should be
Shining or singing still to thee.
I would I had in my best part
Fit rooms for thee! or that my heart
Were so clean as
Thy manger was!
But I am all filth, and obscene           ;
Yet, if thou wilt, thou canst make clean.
Sweet Jesu! will then. Let no more
This leper haunt and soil thy door!
Cure him, ease him,
O release him!
And let once more, by mystic birth,
The Lord of life be born in earth.

The city had withdrawn into itself
And left at last the country to the country             ;
When between whirls of snow not come to lie
And whirls of foliage not yet laid, there drove
A stranger to our yard, who looked the city,
Yet did in country fashion in that there
He sat and waited till he drew us out
A-buttoning coats to ask him who he was.
He proved to be the city come again
To look for something it had left behind
And could not do without and keep its Christmas.
He asked if I would sell my Christmas trees             ;
My woods—the young fir balsams like a place
Where houses all are churches and have spires.
I hadn’t thought of them as Christmas Trees.
I doubt if I was tempted for a moment
To sell them off their feet to go in cars
And leave the slope behind the house all bare,
Where the sun shines now no warmer than the moon.
I’d hate to have them know it if I was.
Yet more I’d hate to hold my trees except
As others hold theirs or refuse for them,
Beyond the time of profitable growth,
The trial by market everything must come to.
I dallied so much with the thought of selling.
Then whether from mistaken courtesy
And fear of seeming short of speech, or whether
From hope of hearing good of what was mine, I said,
“There aren’t enough to be worth while.”
“I could soon tell how many they would cut,
You let me look them over.”
“You could look.
But don’t expect I’m going to let you have them.”
Pasture they spring in, some in clumps too close
That lop each other of boughs, but not a few
Quite solitary and having equal boughs
All round and round. The latter he nodded “Yes” to,
Or paused to say beneath some lovelier one,
With a buyer’s moderation, “That would do.”
I thought so too, but wasn’t there to say so.
We climbed the pasture on the south, crossed over,
And came down on the north. He said, “A thousand.”
“A thousand Christmas trees!—at what apiece?”
He felt some need of softening that to me:
“A thousand trees would come to thirty dollars.”
Then I was certain I had never meant
To let him have them. Never show surprise!
But thirty dollars seemed so small beside
The extent of pasture I should strip, three cents
(For that was all they figured out apiece),
Three cents so small beside the dollar friends
I should be writing to within the hour
Would pay in cities for good trees like those,
Regular vestry-trees whole Sunday Schools
Could hang enough on to pick off enough.
A thousand Christmas trees I didn’t know I had!
Worth three cents more to give away than sell,
As may be shown by a simple calculation.
Too bad I couldn’t lay one in a letter.
I can’t help wishing I could send you one,
In wishing you herewith a Merry Christmas.

The kings they came from out the south,
All dressed in ermine fine                ;
They bore Him gold and chrysoprase,
And gifts of precious wine.
The shepherds came from out the north,
Their coats were brown and old            ;
They brought Him little new-born lambs—
They had not any gold.
The wise men came from out the east,
And they were wrapped in white            ;
The star that led them all the way
Did glorify the night.
The angels came from heaven high,
And they were clad with wings             ;
And lo, they brought a joyful song
The host of heaven sings.
The kings they knocked upon the door,
The wise men entered in,
The shepherds followed after them
To hear the song begin.
The angels sang through all the night
Until the rising sun,
But little Jesus fell asleep
Before the song was done.

In the bleak midwinter, frosty wind made moan,
Earth stood hard as iron, water like a stone             ;
Snow had fallen, snow on snow, snow on snow,
In the bleak midwinter, long ago.
Our God, Heaven cannot hold Him, nor earth sustain       ;
Heaven and earth shall flee away when He comes to reign.
In the bleak midwinter a stable place sufficed
The Lord God Almighty, Jesus Christ.
Enough for Him, whom cherubim, worship night and day,
Breastful of milk, and a mangerful of hay                ;
Enough for Him, whom angels fall before,
The ox and ass and camel which adore.
Angels and archangels may have gathered there,
Cherubim and seraphim thronged the air                   ;
But His mother only, in her maiden bliss,
Worshipped the beloved with a kiss.
What can I give Him, poor as I am?
If I were a shepherd, I would bring a lamb               ;
If I were a Wise Man, I would do my part                 ;
Yet what I can I give Him: give my heart.

Christmas Eve, and twelve of the clock.
“Now they are all on their knees,”
An elder said as we sat in a flock
By the embers in hearthside ease.
We pictured the meek mild creatures where
They dwelt in their strawy pen,
Nor did it occur to one of us there
To doubt they were kneeling then.
So fair a fancy few would weave
In these years! Yet, I feel,
If someone said on Christmas Eve,
“Come                                   ; see the oxen kneel,
“In the lonely barton by yonder coomb
Our childhood used to know,”
I should go with him in the gloom,
Hoping it might be so.

Sitting under the mistletoe
(Pale-green, fairy mistletoe),
One last candle burning low,
All the sleepy dancers gone,
Just one candle burning on,
Shadows lurking everywhere:
Some one came, and kissed me there.
Tired I was                            ; my head would go
Nodding under the mistletoe
(Pale-green, fairy mistletoe),
No footsteps came, no voice, but only,
Just as I sat there, sleepy, lonely,
Stooped in the still and shadowy air
Lips unseen—and kissed me there.

little tree
little silent Christmas tree
you are so little
you are more like a flower
who found you in the green forest
and were you very sorry to come away?
see
i will comfort you
because you smell so sweetly
i will kiss your cool bark
and hug you safe and tight
just as your mother would,
only don't be afraid
look
the spangles
that sleep all the year in a dark box
dreaming of being taken out and allowed to shine,
the balls the chains red and gold the fluffy threads,
put up your little arms
and i'll give them all to you to hold
every finger shall have its ring
and there won't be a single place dark or unhappy
then when you're quite dressed
you'll stand in the window for everyone to see
and how they'll stare!
oh but you'll be very proud
and my little sister and i will take hands
and looking up at our beautiful tree
we'll dance and sing
"Noel Noel"

Now as at all times I can see in the mind's eye,
In their stiff, painted clothes, the pale unsatisfied ones
Appear and disappear in the blue depths of the sky
With all their ancient faces like rain-beaten stones,
And all their helms of silver hovering side by side,
And all their eyes still fixed, hoping to find once more,
Being by Calvary's turbulence unsatisfied,
The uncontrollable mystery on the bestial floor.

As I in hoary winter’s night stood shivering in the snow,
Surpris’d I was with sudden heat which made my heart to glow               ;
And lifting up a fearful eye to view what fire was near,
A pretty Babe all burning bright did in the air appear                       ;
Who, scorched with excessive heat, such floods of tears did shed
As though his floods should quench his flames which with his tears were fed.
“Alas!” quoth he, “but newly born, in fiery heats I fry,
Yet none approach to warm their hearts or feel my fire but I!
My faultless breast the furnace is, the fuel wounding thorns,
Love is the fire, and sighs the smoke, the ashes shame and scorns            ;
The fuel Justice layeth on, and Mercy blows the coals,
The metal in this furnace wrought are men’s defiled souls,
For which, as now on fire I am to work them to their good,
So will I melt into a bath to wash them in my blood.”
With this he vanish’d out of sight and swiftly shrunk away,
And straight I called unto mind that it was Christmas day.

What crowding thoughts around me wake,
What marvels in a Christmas-cake!
Ah say, what strange enchantment dwells
Enclosed within its odorous cells?
Is there no small magician bound
Encrusted in its snowy round?
For magic surely lurks in this,
A cake that tells of vanished bliss      ;
A cake that conjures up to view
The early scenes, when life was new      ;
When memory knew no sorrows past,
And hope believed in joys that last! —
Mysterious cake, whose folds contain
Life’s calendar of bliss and pain      ;
That speaks of friends for ever fled,
And wakes the tears I love to shed.
Oft shall I breathe her cherished name
From whose fair hand the offering came:
For she recalls the artless smile
Of nymphs that deck my native isle       ;
Of beauty that we love to trace,
Allied with tender, modest grace         ;
Of those who, while abroad they roam,
Retain each charm that gladdens home,
And whose dear friendships can impart
A Christmas banquet for the heart!

We assemble the silver tree,
our translated lives,
its luminous branches,
numbered to fit into its body.
place its metallic roots
to decorate our first Christmas.
Mother finds herself
opening, closing the Red Cross box
she will carry into 1976
like an unwanted door prize,
a timepiece, a stubborn fact,
an emblem of exile measuring our days,
marked by the moment of our departure,
our lives no longer arranged.
Somewhere,
there is a photograph,
a Polaroid Mother cannot remember was ever taken:
I am sitting under Tia Tere’s Christmas tree,
her first apartment in this, our new world:
my sisters by my side,
I wear a white dress, black boots,
an eight-year-old’s resignation                           ;
Mae and Mitzy, age four,
wear red and white snowflake sweaters and identical smiles,
on this, our first Christmas,
away from ourselves.
The future unreal, unmade,
Mother will cry into the new year
with Lidia and Emerito,
our elderly downstairs neighbors,
who realize what we are too young to understand:
Even a map cannot show you
the way back to a place
that no longer exists.

Wherever you are when you receive this letter
I write to say we are still ourselves
In the same place
And hope you are the same
The dead have died as you know
And will never get better,
And the children are boys and girls
Of their several ages and names.
So in closing I send you our love
And hope to hear from you soon.
There is never a time
Like the present
It lasts forever
Wherever you are
As ever I remain.

Bethlehem in Germany,
Glitter on the sloping roofs,
Breadcrumbs on the windowsills,
Candles in the Christmas trees,
Hearths with pairs of empty shoes:
Panels of Nativity
Open paper scenes where doors
Open into other scenes,
Some recounted, some foretold.
Blizzard-sprinkled flakes of gold
Gleam from small interiors,
Picture-boxes in the stars
Open up like cupboard doors
In a cabinet Jesus built.
Southern German villagers,
Peasants in the mica frost,
See the comet streaming down,
Heavenly faces, each alone,
Faces lifted, startled, lost,
As if lightning lit the town.
Sitting in an upstairs window
Patiently the village scholar
Raises his nearsighted face,
Interrupted by the star.
Left and right his hands lie stricken
Useless on his heavy book.
When I lift the paper door
In the ceiling of his study
One canary-angel glimmers,
Flitting in the candelabra,
Peers and quizzes him: Rabbi,
What are the spheres surmounted by?
But his lips are motionless.
Child, what are you asking for?
Look, he gazes past the roofs,
Gazes where the bitter North,
Stretched across the empty place,
Opens door by door by door.
This is childhood's shrunken door.
When I touch the glittering crumbs,
When I cry to be admitted,
No one answers, no one comes.
And the tailor's needle flashes
In midair with thread pulled tight,
Stitching a baptismal gown.
But the gown, the seventh door,
Turns up an interior
Hidden from the tailor's eyes:
Baby presents like the boxes
Angels hold on streets and stairways,
Wooden soldier, wooden sword,
Chocolate coins in crinkled gold,
Hints of something bought and sold,
Hints of murder in the stars.
Baby's gown is sown with glitter
Spread across the tailor's lap.
Up above his painted ceiling
Baby mouse's skeleton
Crumbles in the mouse's trap.
Leaning from the cliff of heaven,
Indicating whom he weeps for,
Joseph lifts his lamp above
The infant like a candle-crown.
Let my fingers touch the silence
Where the infant's father cries.
Give me entrance to the village
From my childhood where the doorways
Open pictures in the skies.
But when all the doors are open,
No one sees that I've returned.
When I cry to be admitted,
No one answers, no one comes.
Clinging to my fingers only
Pain, like glitter bits adhering,
When I touch the shining crumbs.

Diluvian, draggled and derelict posse, this
barnacled pod so pales
next to everything we hear of red tides and pilot whales
that a word like “drama” makes me sound remiss
except that there
was a kind of littoral drama in the way the shells
silently, sans the heraldry of bells,
neatly, sans an astrological affair,
and swiftly, sans a multitude of feet, flat-out arrived—
an encrusted school of twenty-four
Gabriellan trumpets at my beach house door
and barely half-alive.
Oh, you can bet
I picked them up, waded right up to my ankles in
there among ’em, hefted ’em up to my ears to hear the din
of all things oceanwise and wet,
but every of the ancient, bearded, anthracite,
salt-water-logged spirals,
every of the massive and unwieldy, magisterial
mollusks shut tight—
no din, no horns roaring reveille, no warning, no beat, no taps,
no coral corpus,
no porpoise purpose
except it was a secret purpose kept strictly under wraps.
A fine Christmas gift indeed, this
obscure migration,
this half-dead conch confederation
which would have smelled yon tannenbaum like fish—
a fine set of unwrappable presents
and no receipt by which I could redeem them.
I lifted one up by its stem
and thought of how, by increments,
all twenty-four
must have lugged those preassembled bodies here
sans Santa, sleigh, and eight little reindeer,
to my drasty stretch of shore.
And, no other explanation being offered for the situation,
I thought that I might understand
how one could argue that the impulse driving them to land
was a sort of evolutionary one—
misguided, yes, redundant, a million years too late,
a needless, maybe rogue and almost campy
demonstration of how history,
even in the world of the invertebrate,
repeats itself—breaker
crashing down on breaker in the Gulf, Gulf War
coming after Gulf War.
O Maker,
there is so much slug inside these shells,
here, at the end of December,
at the edge of a world I couldn’t blame if you did not remember.
Miracles sell well,
but Lord, it can be numbing
to a people who cannot
tell between a second nature and a second thought,
a second chance, or a second coming.

O
fury-
bedecked!
O glitter-torn!
Let the wild wind erect
bonbonbonanzas                                                      ; junipers affect
frostyfreeze turbans                                                ; iciclestuff adorn
all cuckolded creation in a madcap crown of horn!
It’s a new day                                                    ; no scapegrace of a sect
tidying up the ashtrays playing Daughter-in-Law Elect               ;
bells! bibelots! popsicle cigars! shatter the glassware! a son born
now
now
while ox and ass and infant lie
together as poor creatures will
and tears of her exertion still
cling in the spent girl’s eye
and a great firework in the sky
drifts to the western hill.

Ominous inscrutable Chinese news
to get just before Christmas,
considering my reasonable health,
marriage spicy as moo-goo-gai-pan,
career running like a not-too-old Chevrolet.
Not bad, considering what can go wrong:
the bony finger of Uncle Sam
might point out my husband,
my own national guard,
and set him in Afghanistan                         ;
my boss could take a personal interest             ;
the pain in my left knee could spread to my right.
Still, as the old year tips into the new,
I insist on the infant hope, gooing and kicking
his legs in the air. I won't give in
to the dark, the sub-zero weather, the fog,
or even the neighbors' Nativity.
Their four-year-old has arranged
his whole legion of dinosaurs
so they, too, worship the child,
joining the cow and sheep. Or else,
ultimate mortals, they've come to eat
ox and camel, Mary and Joseph,
then savor the newborn babe.

My mother was not impressed with her beauty                                                        ;
once a year she put it on like a costume,
plaited her black hair, slick as cornsilk, down past her hips,
in one rope-thick braid, turned it, carefully, hand over hand,
and fixed it at the nape of her neck, stiff and elegant as a crown,
with tortoise pins, like huge insects,
some belonging to her dead mother,
some to my living grandmother.
Sitting on the stool at the mirror,
she applied a peachy foundation that seemed to hold her down, to trap her,
as if we never would have noticed what flew among us unless it was weighted and bound in its mask.
Vaseline shined her eyebrows,
mascara blackened her lashes until they swept down like feathers                                   ;
her eyes deepened until they shone from far away.
Now I remember her hands, her poor hands, which, even then were old from scrubbing,
whiter on the inside than they should have been,
and hard, the first joints of her fingers, little fattened pads,
the nails filed to sharp points like old-fashioned ink pens,
painted a jolly color.
Her hands stood next to her face and wanted to be put away, prayed
for the scrub bucket and brush to make them useful.
And, as I write, I forget the years I watched her
pull hairs like a witch from her chin, magnify
every blotch—as if acid were thrown from the inside.
But once a year my mother
rose in her white silk slip,
not the slave of the house, the woman,
took the ironed dress from the hanger—
allowing me to stand on the bed, so that
my face looked directly into her face,
and hold the garment away from her
as she pulled it down.

Cards in each mailbox,
angel, manger, star and lamb,
as the rural carrier,
driving the snowy roads,
hears from her bundles
the plaintive bleating of sheep,
the shuffle of sandals,
the clopping of camels.
At stop after stop,
she opens the little tin door
and places deep in the shadows
the shepherds and wise men,
the donkeys lank and weary,
the cow who chews and muses.
And from her Styrofoam cup,
white as a star and perched
on the dashboard, leading her
ever into the distance,
there is a hint of hazelnut,
and then a touch of myrrh.

Trying to find my roost
one lidded, late afternoon,
the consolation of color
worked up like neediness,
like craving chocolate,
I’m at Art Institute favorites:
Velasquez’s “Servant,”
her bashful attention fixed
to place things just right,
Beckmann’s “Self-Portrait,”
whose fishy fingers seem
never to do a day’s work,
the great stone lions outside
monumentally pissed
by jumbo wreaths and ribbons
municipal good cheer
yoked around their heads.
Mealy mist. Furred air.
I walk north across
the river, Christmas lights
crushed on skyscraper glass,
bling stringing Michigan Ave.,
sunlight’s last-gasp sighing
through the artless fog.
Vague fatigued promise hangs
in the low darkened sky
when bunched scrawny starlings
rattle up from trees,
switchback and snag
like tossed rags dressing
the bare wintering branches,
black-on-black shining,
and I’m in a moment
more like a fore-moment:
from the sidewalk, watching them
poised without purpose,
I feel lifted inside the common
hazards and orders of things
when from their stillness,
the formal, aimless, not-waiting birds
erupt again, clap, elated weather-
making wing-clouds changing,
smithereened back and forth,
now already gone to follow
the river’s running course.

Christmas trees lined like war refugees,
a fallen army made to stand in their greens.
Cut down at the foot, on their last leg,
they pull themselves up, arms raised.
We drop them like wood                       ;
tied, they are driven through the streets,
dragged through the door, cornered
in a room, given a single blanket,
only water to drink, surrounded by joy.
Forced to wear a gaudy gold star,
to surrender their pride,
they do their best to look alive.

Everyone's spending Christmas Eve adrift
in the corporal skirmish, mixing
up the darks with the lights, fending
with elbows and dirty
looks. Wet wool and down
crowd the air. Where are the stars, pristine
as great ideas? Behind clouds
the heavens saturate
with luminous dust, shuttles wearing halos
of earthdirt, light pollution
from jets fired to keep things
on course. Boys rickrack a ball off
floor and ceiling past the table
tree bubbling with giveaway
ornaments from Burger King and lights
that manage an occasional
lackadaisical flash. Showstoppers: everyone
looks every time and keeps looking
to make sure it happened.
The double frontloaders are going
like abstract TVs. And the program is important:
all about the boggling sullied
lives we'd like to hide.
But this is no place
to do so, where known
and unknown perverts come
to pirate underpants and the innocent
clutch their Cheer and Shout.
The rules are posted: only the toughest
habiliments, the superego
of raiment can take such agitation.
And only the poor are invited to endure
the sneezy powders and clean resentment.
Imagine a museum installation—
200 hypnotic washers stuffed with somersaulting
cloth. Critics could rise to the challenge,
their statements settling like coats
of gold and silver
chain mail over each machine:
"These Speed Queen pieces thrust ahead of art-
for-art's sake to confront us
with a realism of socio-political
magnitude. The vortex-like movement
of pattern, color, and texture infuses
these works with an abundance of unconscious
bliss. The soft forms
circulate with vigor
across the screens. The viewer
is not privy
to the cause of dirt
though one is witness to the dirt's
ablutions. The point is
we are not impeccable."
Everyone would be happy
to know that! And so we're forced to
scoop and pour
a fine white empathy over
the hairy flannels, snaggy nylons,
the glass front that gives
forth this light
industry, the silly tree
and jingles about blue and white
Christmases, chestnuts, sleighbells,
just as snow settles
on every unsequestered thing:
from blistered gum -
ball machines, clumsy bumpers,
crepuscular theaters with sticky floors,
to ramshackle mansions
choked with smiling
china animals where light shakes itself out
from TVs and old women
frail as walking sticks
sweep their stoops at eight a.m.
Just as snow makes the less than impeccable
classical, stroking the merely
drab or passing, quickly or slowly,
so we can count only on its
leaving, teaching
liquidity
to what seems solid.

A little heat caught
in gleaming rags,
in shrouds of veil,
torn and sun-shot swaddlings:
over the Methodist roof,
two clouds propose a Zion
of their own, blazing
(colors of tarnish on copper)
against the steely close
of a coastal afternoon, December,
while under the steeple
the Choral Society
prepares to perform
Messiah, pouring, in their best
blacks and whites, onto the raked stage.
Not steep, really,
but from here,
the first pew, they’re a looming
cloudbank of familiar angels:
that neighbor who
fights operatically
with her girlfriend, for one,
and the friendly bearded clerk
from the post office
—tenor trapped
in the body of a baritone? Altos
from the A&P, soprano
from the T-shirt shop:
today they’re all poise,
costume and purpose
conveying the right note
of distance and formality.
Silence in the hall,
anticipatory, as if we’re all
about to open a gift we’re not sure
we’ll like                             ;
how could they
compete with sunset’s burnished
oratorio? Thoughts which vanish,
when the violins begin.
Who’d have thought
they’d be so good? Every valley,
proclaims the solo tenor,
(a sleek blonde
I’ve seen somewhere before
—the liquor store?) shall be exalted,
and in his handsome mouth the word
is lifted and opened
into more syllables
than we could count, central ah
dilated in a baroque melisma,
liquefied                                ; the pour
of voice seems
to make the unplaned landscape
the text predicts the Lord
will heighten and tame.
This music
demonstrates what it claims:
glory shall be revealed. If art’s
acceptable evidence,
mustn’t what lies
behind the world be at least
as beautiful as the human voice?
The tenors lack confidence,
and the soloists,
half of them anyway, don’t
have the strength to found
the mighty kingdoms
these passages propose
—but the chorus, all together,
equals my burning clouds,
and seems itself to burn,
commingled powers
deeded to a larger, centering claim.
These aren’t anyone we know            ;
choiring dissolves
familiarity in an up-
pouring rush which will not
rest, will not, for a moment,
be still.
Aren’t we enlarged
by the scale of what we’re able
to desire? Everything,
the choir insists,
might flame                              ;
inside these wrappings
burns another, brighter life,
quickened, now,
by song: hear how
it cascades, in overlapping,
lapidary waves of praise? Still time.
Still time to change.

Often, on Christmas,
I listen to a chant
Float from a colored window
Softly sibilant.
Often, on Christmas,
I wait until a glow
From a colored pane of glass
Slides across the snow.
Yet though I hear songs,
and listen from without

Wind whistling, as it does
in winter, and I think
nothing of it until
it snaps a shutter off
her bedroom window, spins
it over the roof and down
to crash on the deck in back,
like something out of Oz.
We look up, stunned—then glad
to be safe and have a story,
characters in a fable
we only half-believe.
Look, in my surprise
I somehow split a wall,
the last one in the house
we’re making of gingerbread.
We’ll have to improvise:
prop the two halves forward
like an open double door
and with a tube of icing
cement them to the floor.
Five days until Christmas,
and the house cannot be closed.
When she peers into the cold
interior we’ve exposed,
she half-expects to find
three magi in the manger,
a mother and her child.
She half-expects to read
on tablets of gingerbread
a line or two of Scripture,
as she has every morning
inside a dated shutter
on her Advent calendar.
She takes it from the mantel
and coaxes one fingertip
under the perforation,
as if her future hinges
on not tearing off the flap
under which a thumbnail picture
by Raphael or Giorgione,
Hans Memling or David
of apses, niches, archways,
cradles a smaller scene
of a mother and her child,
of the lidded jewel-box
of Mary’s downcast eyes.
Flee into Egypt, cries
the angel of the Lord
to Joseph in a dream,
for Herod will seek the young
child to destroy him. While
she works to tile the roof
with shingled peppermints,
I wash my sugared hands
and step out to the deck
to lug the shutter in,
a page torn from a book
still blank for the two of us,
a mother and her child.

The night is so beautiful
and so frightening
I hesitate
before I follow the dog further up into the white
road where snow doesn't
disguise the ice.
Stars have appeared in the east
and wise men at intersections

Almost
the first reindeer
shipped North by boxcar from Lapland
but a toy model
got there first.
A dwarf invented reindeer on his own.
He was Santa’s favorite. He
hadn't known
they already existed.
This discouraged dwarf
was close to taking his life but
Santa showed up
encircled by snow.
He said, “I will use the real reindeer for my sled
always in yoke
to your original invention.”
That night the gears that turned the Pole
stopped
and began to turn the other way,
so it be so.
My love is a toy model waiting
for a reindeer to carry me.

In front of the craft shop,
a small nativity,
mother, baby, sheep
made of white
and blue balloons.

The night is so beautiful
and so frightening
I hestitate
before I follow the dog
further up into the white
road where snow doesn't disguise
the ice.
Stars have appeared in the east
and wise men at intersections

A BB gun.
A model plane.
A basketball.
A ’lectric train.
A bicycle.
A cowboy hat.
A comic book.
A baseball bat.
A deck of cards.
A science kit.
A racing car.
A catcher’s mitt.
So that’s my list
of everything
that Santa Claus
forgot to bring.

But give me holly, bold and jolly,
Honest, prickly, shining holly     ;
Pluck me holly leaf and berry
For the day when I make merry.

’Twas the night before Christmas, when all through the house
Not a creature was stirring, not even a mouse                  ;
The stockings were hung by the chimney with care,
In hopes that St. Nicholas soon would be there                 ;
The children were nestled all snug in their beds,
While visions of sugar-plums danced in their heads             ;
And mamma in her ’kerchief, and I in my cap,
Had just settled our brains for a long winter’s nap,
When out on the lawn there arose such a clatter,
I sprang from the bed to see what was the matter…

What crowding thoughts around me wake,
What marvels in a Christmas-cake!
Ah say, what strange enchantment dwells
Enclosed within its odorous cells?
Is there no small magician bound
Encrusted in its snowy round?
For magic surely lurks in this,
A cake that tells of vanished bliss      ;
A cake that conjures up to view
The early scenes, when life was new      ;
When memory knew no sorrows past,
And hope believed in joys that last! —
Mysterious cake, whose folds contain
Life’s calendar of bliss and pain      ;
That speaks of friends for ever fled,
And wakes the tears I love to shed.
Oft shall I breathe her cherished name
From whose fair hand the offering came:
For she recalls the artless smile
Of nymphs that deck my native isle       ;
Of beauty that we love to trace,
Allied with tender, modest grace         ;
Of those who, while abroad they roam,
Retain each charm that gladdens home,
And whose dear friendships can impart
A Christmas banquet for the heart!

The twelfth day of Christmas
My true love sent to me
Twelve fiddlers fiddling,
Eleven ladies dancing,
Ten pipers piping,
Nine drummers drumming,
Eight maids a-milking,
Seven swans a-swimming,
Six geese a-laying,
Five gold rings,
Four colly birds,
Three French hens,
Two turtle doves, and
A partridge in a pear tree.

We assemble the silver tree,
our translated lives,
its luminous branches,
numbered to fit into its body.
place its metallic roots
to decorate our first Christmas.
Mother finds herself
opening, closing the Red Cross box
she will carry into 1976
like an unwanted door prize,
a timepiece, a stubborn fact,
an emblem of exile measuring our days,
marked by the moment of our departure,
our lives no longer arranged.
Somewhere,
there is a photograph,
a Polaroid Mother cannot remember was ever taken:
I am sitting under Tia Tere’s Christmas tree,
her first apartment in this, our new world:
my sisters by my side,
I wear a white dress, black boots,
an eight-year-old’s resignation                           ;
Mae and Mitzy, age four,
wear red and white snowflake sweaters and identical smiles,
on this, our first Christmas,
away from ourselves.
The future unreal, unmade,
Mother will cry into the new year
with Lidia and Emerito,
our elderly downstairs neighbors,
who realize what we are too young to understand:
Even a map cannot show you
the way back to a place
that no longer exists.

In the bleak midwinter, frosty wind made moan,
Earth stood hard as iron, water like a stone             ;
Snow had fallen, snow on snow, snow on snow,
In the bleak midwinter, long ago.
Our God, Heaven cannot hold Him, nor earth sustain       ;
Heaven and earth shall flee away when He comes to reign.
In the bleak midwinter a stable place sufficed
The Lord God Almighty, Jesus Christ.
Enough for Him, whom cherubim, worship night and day,
Breastful of milk, and a mangerful of hay                ;
Enough for Him, whom angels fall before,
The ox and ass and camel which adore.
Angels and archangels may have gathered there,
Cherubim and seraphim thronged the air                   ;
But His mother only, in her maiden bliss,
Worshipped the beloved with a kiss.
What can I give Him, poor as I am?
If I were a shepherd, I would bring a lamb               ;
If I were a Wise Man, I would do my part                 ;
Yet what I can I give Him: give my heart.

Before the ice is in the pools—
Before the skaters go,
Or any check at nightfall
Is tarnished by the snow—
Before the fields have finished,
Before the Christmas tree,
Wonder upon wonder
Will arrive to me!

for the exotic: mint and apple sauce,
imported rosemary, cranberries, candied
peel and blocks of English butter.
It began with baking, the Christmas cake
drenched daily with dark brandy
until it oozed from the lightest finger-flick
and emptying jar after jar
of Robertson’s mincemeat into pastry.
Cinnamon gold-dusted everything.
After the final Advent window,
we opened all our doors,
welcoming hungry occupants, their cars
filling up the driveway, aunts and uncles,
cousins in greater and lesser iterations,
the generations dressed in batik, bearing gifts.
The kitchen was ever at the heart of it.
My parents cooked together.
Crackling, perfection an inch thick
on the side of pig that Dad roasted
while Mum beatified the oven-pan,
red wine gravy, bliss of roux.
Cheerful, family sat where we could,
plates heavy in heady heat, heaped
meat, golden potatoes, peas, carrots too.
Our hands were full. Still there was more,
glasses, cups, Anchor beer and Sunkist,
hot kopi, Cointreau, joyful chatter,
mince pies with cream, walnuts
to crack and chocolates to unwrap.
Dad asked again, again and
again if we’d enough to eat
until decidedly replete, my extended family
levered to their feet, departed noisily.
Day cooled to a close. Dusk drifted quiet
through rooms to settle on stacks
of washing up glinting in the sink.
It was always good, that stillness,
sky kissed with flecks of light,
night unbuttoning its mysteries.

He came in winter
when the house was always dark,
brought red Christmas cacti
fire-crackering from their pots
and a suitcase full of candles,
thickened my gloomy rooms
with light.
I met the shadows he bred
without caution
and did not complain
when he followed me to my bed.
Outside, frost had edged the world
with spite.
The city foxes were howling,
cracking their teeth on the ice.
The sharp scent of January scared me.
His big hands cast wolves on the walls.
Fear made me knot myself
around him.
He had a bristled chin
and smelled of fathers.
‘Tell me a story,’ I said
and he told me how lust
could turn an angel
inside out.

I buy a tree
so that when Marla comes home
she will smile and know it is Chirstmas.
I buy a tall tree and cover it in baubles
and coloured lights.
For when Marla comes Home

little tree
little silent Christmas tree
you are so little
you are more like a flower
who found you in the green forest
and were you very sorry to come away?
see i will comfort you
because you smell so sweetly
i will kiss your cool bark
and hug you safe and tight
just as your mother would,
only don't be afraid
look at the spangles
that sleep all the year in a dark box
dreaming of being taken out and allowed to shine,
the balls the chains red and gold the fluffy threads,
put up your little arms
and i'll give them all to you to hold
every finger shall have its ring
and there won't be a single place dark or unhappy
then when you're quite dressed
you'll stand in the window for everyone to see
and how they'll stare!
oh but you'll be very proud
and my little sister and i will take hands
and looking up at our beautiful tree
we'll dance and sing
"Noel Noel"

The kings they came from out the south,
All dressed in ermine fine                ;
They bore Him gold and chrysoprase,
And gifts of precious wine.
The shepherds came from out the north,
Their coats were brown and old            ;
They brought Him little new-born lambs—
They had not any gold.
The wise men came from out the east,
And they were wrapped in white            ;
The star that led them all the way
Did glorify the night.
The angels came from heaven high,
And they were clad with wings             ;
And lo, they brought a joyful song
The host of heaven sings.
The kings they knocked upon the door,
The wise men entered in,
The shepherds followed after them
To hear the song begin.
The angels sang through all the night
Until the rising sun,
But little Jesus fell asleep
Before the song was done.

Music I love–but never strain
Could kindle raptures so divine,
So grief assuage, so conquer pain,
And rouse this pensive heart of mine–
As that we hear on Christmas morn,
Upon the wintry breezes borne.
Though Darkness still her empire keep,
And hours must pass, ere morning break      ;
From troubled dreams, or slumbers deep,
That music kindly bids us wake:
It calls us, with an angel’s voice,
To wake, and worship, and rejoice           ;
To greet with joy the glorious morn,
Which angels welcomed long ago,
When our redeeming Lord was born,
To bring the light of Heaven below          ;
The Powers of Darkness to dispel,
And rescue Earth from Death and Hell.
While listening to that sacred strain,
My raptured spirit soars on high            ;
I seem to hear those songs again
Resounding through the open sky,
That kindled such divine delight,
In those who watched their flocks by night.
With them, I celebrate His birth–
Glory to God, in highest Heaven,
Good-will to men, and peace on Earth,
To us a Saviour-king is given               ;
Our God is come to claim His own,
And Satan’s power is overthrown!
A sinless God, for sinful men,
Descends to suffer and to bleed             ;
Hell must renounce its empire then          ;
The price is paid, the world is freed,
And Satan’s self must now confess,
That Christ has earned a Right to bless:
Now holy Peace may smile from heaven,
And heavenly Truth from earth shall spring:
The captive’s galling bonds are riven,
For our Redeemer is our king                ;
And He that gave his blood for men
Will lead us home to God again.

I am the oldest angel, the dark side of the brain.
Everything untold, suppressed, unseemly or wild
is under my protection. I am Charoum,
Angel of Silence. I am the seed of fire
in a hearth you thought was cold,
the stillness when you step into moonlit snow
and who you are in private. I appear
whenever you drop into quiet, when surface
cracks, lustre and veneer rub thin.
Silence, you say, when you make room for wonder.
I am less and less here. But tonight, for twenty-four
strange hours in the darkness of the year, I have a voice –
for this is Christmas Eve, when everything hidden
comes alive. Children’s toys
that have rolled under a sofa, or stayed
in the cupboard unplayed-with for years,
the mice you weren’t aware of in the wall,
and your own unspoken longing to be given
something more by life: suddenly, if you listen,
all unnoticed things can talk. And so can I. Tonight
I play a part in everyone’s secret search
for something better. Come with me
to St Pancras Old Church, on a little London hill
runed with twenty centuries of human stories.

late lies the wintry sun a-bed,
A frosty, fiery sleepy-head            ;
Blinks but an hour or two              ; and then,
A blood-red orange, sets again.
Before the stars have left the skies,
At morning in the dark I rise          ;
And shivering in my nakedness,
By the cold candle, bathe and dress.
Close by the jolly fire I sit
To warm my frozen bones a bit          ;
Or with a reindeer-sled, explore
The colder countries round the door.
When to go out, my nurse doth wrap
Me in my comforter and cap             ;
The cold wind burns my face, and blows
Its frosty pepper up my nose.
Black are my steps on silver sod       ;
Thick blows my frosty breath abroad    ;
And tree and house, and hill and lake,
Are frosted like a wedding-cake.

Each Christmas, he’d change the baling twine
that held his trousers up to festive orange, but
this year he left it blue. He couldn’t find a clean
or hole-free jumper in the blanket box, so shut
the lid forever on its Nina Ricci dust and wore
instead the logo sweatshirt that she hated,
scrawled in blue. Squinting, he plucked a nose
hair on each day of advent, chalked off and feted
their demise with chocolate Santas bought for
kids carolling to the farm. They bleated their best
Bethlehem, expecting gold, getting blue. Vape
rings hanging in cold air said he’d failed the test,
forgotten those kind crinkles at the corner of her
eyes flirting like lost periwinkles on woodland
floors. His shut, he saw her eyelids flicker pain,
the cannula breaking blue on the back of her hand.

I leant upon a coppice gate
When Frost was spectre-grey,
And Winter’s dregs made desolate
The weakening eye of day.
The tangled bine-stems scored the sky
Like strings of broken lyres,
And all mankind that haunted nigh
Had sought their household fires.
The land’s sharp features seemed to be
The Century’s corpse outleant,
His crypt the cloudy canopy,
The wind his death-lament.
The ancient pulse of germ and birth
Was shrunken hard and dry,
And every spirit upon earth
Seemed fervourless as I.
At once a voice arose among
The bleak twigs overhead
In a full-hearted evensong
Of joy illimited                          ;
An aged thrush, frail, gaunt, and small,
In blast-beruffled plume,
Had chosen thus to fling his soul
Upon the growing gloom.
So little cause for carolings
Of such ecstatic sound
Was written on terrestrial things
Afar or nigh around,
That I could think there trembled through
His happy good-night air
Some blessed Hope, whereof he knew
And I was unaware.

The minstrels played their Christmas tune
To-night beneath my cottage eaves            ;
While smitten by a lofty moon,
The encircling laurels thick with leaves,
Gave back a rich and dazzling sheen,
That overpowered their natural green.
Through hill and valley every breeze
Had sunk to rest with folded wings:
Keen was the air, but could not freeze
Nor check the music of the strings           ;
So stout and hardy were the band
That scraped the chords with strenuous hand.
And who but listened?–till was paid
Respect to every inmate’s claim,
The greeting given, the music played
In honor of each household name,
Duly pronounced with lusty call,
And a merry Christmas wished to all.

The first white hill still glistens
Beneath the moonlit skies           ;
As on the night of Christmas
Untrod it sleeping lies,
A new born year is waiting
To meet the early dawn:
And whisper this to all the world,
Another Christmas gone.

Ring out, wild bells, to the wild sky,
The flying cloud, the frosty light:
The year is dying in the night           ;
Ring out, wild bells, and let him die.
Ring out the old, ring in the new,
Ring, happy bells, across the snow:
The year is going, let him go            ;
Ring out the false, ring in the true.
Ring out the grief that saps the mind
For those that here we see no more       ;
Ring out the feud of rich and poor,
Ring in redress to all mankind.
Ring out a slowly dying cause,
And ancient forms of party strife        ;
Ring in the nobler modes of life,
With sweeter manners, purer laws.
Ring out the want, the care, the sin,
The faithless coldness of the times      ;
Ring out, ring out my mournful rhymes
But ring the fuller minstrel in.
Ring out false pride in place and blood,
The civic slander and the spite          ;
Ring in the love of truth and right,
Ring in the common love of good.
Ring out old shapes of foul disease      ;
Ring out the narrowing lust of gold      ;
Ring out the thousand wars of old,
Ring in the thousand years of peace.
Ring in the valiant man and free,
The larger heart, the kindlier hand      ;
Ring out the darkness of the land,
Ring in the Christ that is to be.

What can be said in New Year rhymes,
That’s not been said a thousand times?
The news years come, the old years go,
We know we dream, we dream we know.
We rise up laughing with the light,
We lie down weeping with the night.
We hug the world until it stings,
We curse it then and sigh for wings.
We live, we love, we woo, we wed,
We wreathe out prides, we sheet our dead.
We laugh, we weep, we hope, we fear,
And that’s the burden of a year.

let Every Day Be Christmas
Christmas is forever, not for just one day,
for loving, sharing, giving, are not to put away
like bells and lights and tinsel, in some box upon a shelf.
The good you do for others is good you do yourself.
Peace on Earth, good will to men,
kind thoughts and words of cheer,
are things we should use often
and not just once a year.
Remember too the Christ-child, grew up to be a man                ;
to hide him in a cradle, is not our dear Lord’s plan.
So keep the Christmas spirit, share it with others far and near,
from week to week and month to month, throughout the entire year!

Where are the children who haven’t got their Christmas tree
with silver snow, fairy lights
and chocolate fruits?
Hurry up, hurry up, gathering,
We go in Chritmas trees land,
I know where it is.

Whose heart doth hold the Christmas glow
Hath little need of Mistletoe            ;
Who bears a smiling grace of mien
Need waste no time on wreaths of green   ;
Whose lips have words of comfort spread
Needs not the holly – berries red –
His very presence scatters wide
The spirit of the Christmastide

Christ climbed down
from His bare Tree
this year
and ran away to where
there were no rootless Christmas trees
hung with candycanes and breakable stars
Christ climbed down
from His bare Tree
this year
and ran away to where
there were no gilded Christmas trees
and no tinsel Christmas trees
and no tinfoil Christmas trees
and no pink plastic Christmas trees
and no gold Christmas trees
and no black Christmas trees
and no powderblue Christmas trees
hung with electric candles
and encircled by tin electric trains
and clever cornball relatives

It was the calm and silent night!
Seven hundred years and fifty-three
Had Rome been growing up to might
And now was queen of land and sea.
No sound was heard of clashing wars,
Peace brooded o’er the hushed domain ;
Apollo, Pallas, Jove and Mars,
Held undisturbed their ancient reign,
In the solemn midnight,
Centuries ago.

It is the Christmas time:
And up and down ‘twixt heaven and earth,
In glorious grief and solemn mirth,
The shining angels climb.

I love the Christmas-tide, and yet,
I notice this, each year I live     ;
I always like the gifts I get,
But how I love the gifts I give!

‘Tis blessed to bestow, and yet,
Could we bestow the gifts we get,
And keep the ones we give away,
How happy were our Christmas day!

The earth has grown old with its burden of care,
But at Christmas it is always young                      ;
The heart of the jewel burns lustrous and fair,
And its soul, full of music, breaks forth on the air
When the song of the angels is sung.
It is coming, Old Earth, it is coming tonight!
On the snowflakes which cover thy sod
The feet of the Christ-child fall gentle and white,
And the voice of the Christ-child tells out with delight
That mankind are the children of God.

Announced by all the trumpets of the sky,
Arrives the snow, and, driving o’er the fields,
Seems nowhere to alight: the whited air
Hides hills and woods, the river, and the heaven,
And veils the farmhouse at the garden’s end.
The sled and traveller stopped, the courier’s feet
Delayed, all friends shut out, the housemates sit
Around the radiant fireplace, enclosed
In a tumultuous privacy of storm.

Let Christmas not become a thing
Merely of merchant’s trafficking,
Of tinsel, bell and holly wreath
And surface pleasure, but beneath
The childish glamour, let us find
Nourishment for soul and mind.
Let us follow kinder ways
Through our teeming human maze,
And help the age of peace to come
From a Dreamer’s martyrdom.

Along the Woodford road there comes a noise
Of wheels, and Mr. Rounding’s neat post-chaise
Struggles along, drawn by a pair of bays,
With Reverend Mr. Crow and six small boys,
Who ever and anon declare their joys
With trumping horns and juvenile huzzas,
At going home to spend their Christmas days,
And changing learning’s pains for pleasure’s toys.
Six weeks elapse, and down the Woodford way
A heavy coach drags six more heavy souls,
But no glad urchins shout, no trumpets bray,
The carriage makes a halt, the gate-bell tolls,
And little boys walk in as dull and mum
As six new scholars to the Deaf and Dumb!

‘Twas the night before christmas.
With a blanket of white.
That covered the earth all through the night.
The trees sparkled like diamonds.
With a glitter so bright.
That each little twinkle made its own christmas light.
A hope and a prayer a white christmas would be.
Awaiting the dawn so all could see.
The beauty and joy a white christmas does bring.
To the holiday season as carolers sing.
For twas the night before Christmas.
God answered your prayer.
With a blanket of white.
Placed with God’s loving care.”

But if they’d give us toys and twice the stuff most
parents splurge on the average kid, orphans, I submit, need more than enough  ;
in fact, stacks wrapped with our names nearly hid
the tree: these sparkling allotments yearly
guaranteed a lack of – what? – family? –
I knew exactly what it was I missed as we were lined up number rank and file:
to share my pals’ tearing open their piles
meant sealing the self, the child that wanted
to scream at all You stole those gifts from me                                ;
whose birthday is worth such words? The wish-lists
they’d made us write out in May lay granted
against starred branches. I said I’m sorry.

Oh happy days, the snow fell over-night,
we have a white Christmas in our sight.
Only a few more days and nights,
Christmas will shine bright of white.
Remember those beautiful Christmas Eves,
when we gathered round our colorful trees.
Remember when we caroled down the street,
sang Christmas songs oh so sweet.
Memories are precious let’s not forget,
don’t do anything you might regret.
Christmas is the time of year to share,
to treasure family far and near.
This Christmas with the lights shining bright,
reflecting God’s blanket of white.
Sing sweet songs in memory,
past Christmas’s history.

Christmas is really
for the children.
Especially for children
who like animals, stables,
stars and babies wrapped
in swaddling clothes.
Then there are wise men,
kings in fine robes,
humble shepherds and a
hint of rich perfume.
Easter is not really
for the children
unless accompanied by
a cream filled egg.
It has whips, blood, nails,
a spear and allegations
of body snatching.
It involves politics, God
and the sins of the world.
It is not good for people
of a nervous disposition.
They would do better to
think on rabbits, chickens
and the first snowdrop
of spring.
Or they'd do better to
wait for a re-run of
Christmas without asking
too many questions about
what Jesus did when he grew up
or whether there's any connection.

'The Camels, the Kings' Camels, Haie-aie!
Saddles of polished leather, stained red and purple,
Pommels inlaid with ivory and beaten gold,
Bridles of silk embroidery, worked with flowers.
The Camels, the Kings' Camels!'
We are groomed with silver combs,
We are washed with perfumes.
The grain of richest Africa is fed to us,
Our dishes are silver.
Like cloth-of-gold glisten our sleek pelts.
Of all camels, we alone carry the Kings!
Do you wonder that we are proud?
That our hooded eyes are contemptuous?
As we sail past the tented villages
They beat their copper gongs after us.
'The windswift, the desert racers. See them!
Faster than gazelles, faster than hounds,
Haie-aie! The Camels, the Kings' Camels!'
The sand drifts in puffs behind us,
The glinting quartz, the fine, hard grit.
Do you wonder that we look down our noses?
Do you wonder we flare our superior nostrils?
All night we have run under the moon,
Without effort, breathing lightly,
Smooth as a breeze over the desert floor,
One white star our compass.
We have come to no palace, no place
Of towers and minarets and the calling of servants,
But a poor stable in a poor town.
So why are we bending our crested necks?
Why are our proud heads bowed
And our eyes closed meekly?
Why are we outside this hovel,
Humbly and awkwardly kneeling?
How is it that we know the world is changed?

Jingle jangle jingle...
Who remembers Mr. Bingle...
From New Orleans, he was friends with Kris Kringle...
They enjoyed some fun and cheer...
When Kris came to visit with Bingle each year...
The two would celebrate with all the reindeer...
All the kids would come and play...
With Bingle and Kris in his red sleigh...
Celebrating friendship the New Orleans way...
Time to launch your Christmas season...
Bingle and Kris make the holidays pleasin’...
Let’s all celebrate within reason...
Jingle jangle jingle...
Merry Christmas Mr. Bingle...
It’s Christmas in New Orleans...
Merry Christmas Everyone!

It’s beginning to look a lot like Christmas...
A time for love and joy...
When Santa starts The Wish List...
To bring everyone that perfect toy...
But there are some kids who misbehaved...
Who were naughty throughout the year...
Your name might be missing from Santa’s List...
You know who you are, oh dear...
So don’t get all huffy and puffy...
When you don’t get jack on Christmas Day...
I don’t want to hear a peep out of you...
Now go outside and clean my sleigh!

In my earliest days of butterscotch sunshine,
To possess a new bike was my deepest wish,
So I asked it of my father one Christmastime,
Launching a childish memory which I cherish!
My dad promised, and he ever kept his word,
In the hopscotch days of skies sapphire blue.
Joy awaited on Christmas Day, ere we stirred,
As the first dream I ever dreamed came true!

Christmas comes but once a year
A time of joy, a time of cheer,
Families united, presents galore,
The feasting and chatting never a bore            ;
The laden tree glistening, lights burning bright,
What better to gather with an Eggnog each night,
Celebrate family and friends we hold dear,
While thinking of loved ones sadly not here       ;
But together or not they live in our heart,
A special safe place from which they shan't part.
So let's lift our glasses and offer this toast,
Health, Peace and Cheers to All we love most.

In frostiness of December, crystal snowflakes enthrall,
It's a month I long remember, coming after colors fall,
A season of love and magic, when hope's everywhere,
As vivid lights and twinkling stars, together fill the air!

Tonight they’ll be lighting the Rock Center tree.
And floods of sweet memories will pour back to me
Of a young Brooklyn boy on his way to “the city.”
(“Brooklyn’s also the city!” would only draw pity.)
Those gigantic blond people blocking my view
Did not look at all like the neighbors I knew.
But tourists were part of the whole magic scene,
As the colored lights shined on pine needles of green.
The Christmas tree lighting drew loud gasps and cheers
As I looked up in wonder and mom held me near.
The skaters below were a dazzling sight
As they whirled ’round the rink on this magical night.
These beautiful people of such style and grace
(Tho’ there always was one who’d fall smack on his face).
While I watched from above as ice queens below twirled,
I was so mesmerized by this magical world.
There were no TV hosts then to guide us along
No Roker, no Lauer, no one singing songs.
There was no Pentatonix and no Gwen Stefani,
Just my mom and my dad and my goofy friend Lonnie.
But that’s all we needed, my family and me,
And my friend and the rink and the lights and the tree.
This magical memory won’t fade away,
A tradition that carries on right ’til today.
The smiles on the faces, the season’s first snow,
New York at its best, and it still makes me glow.
The sights and the sounds and the sweet chestnut smell
As the lights filled the plaza — and our hearts as well.

Oh, the Christmas tree's my favorite
Of all the trees that grow.

One touch of Christmas makes the whole world kin.

If I could have my wish tonight it would not be for wealth or fame,
It would not be for some delight that men who live in lixary claims,
But it would be that I might rise at three or four a.m. to see,
With eager,happy,boyish eyes, my presents on the Christmas tree.
Throughout this world, there is no joy.
I know now I am growing gray.
So rich as being just a boy, a little boy on Christmas day.

Why is Christmas Eve such a happy day?
I say a little hymn about happy, happy Christmas.

Christmas waves a magic wand over this world,
and behold,
everything is softer and more beautiful.

Happy, happy Christmas, that can win us back to the delisions of our childish days,
that can recall to the old man the pleasures of his youth,
that can transport the sailor and the traveller,
thousands of miles away,
back to his own fire-side and his own quiet home!

I look in mother's closet,
And what do I see
But a huge pile of presents!
Maybe one is for me.
If I just take a peek,
At those bundles in there,
I wonder whether mother
really would care..

Do you remember, in the old days,
How you gathered around the cheerful blaze
On Christmas Eve, while the winds sang low,
Across the limitless fields of snow?
It was winter without, but what cared you?
In your heart was summer, for well you knew.
"Twould be Christmas tomorrow, and can you see,
within the mirror of memory,
When stockings were hung and prayers were said
And your mother had tucked you safe in bed,
How you sneaked downstairs at the dawn's first light
To see what Santa had brought that night?

Whose heart doth hold the Christmas glow
Hath little need of Mistletoe,
Who bears a smiling grace of mien
Need waste no time on wreaths of green,
Whose lips have words of comfort spread
Needs not the holly berries red
His very presence scatters wide
The spirit of the Christmastide.

Mistletoe and gleaming holly,
Symbols of a blessed day.

I sometimes think we expect too much of Christmas Day.
We try to crowd into it the long arrears of kindliness and humanity of the whole year.
And this I drift along into the holidays
Let them overtake me unexpectedly
Waking up some fine morning and suddenly saying to myself
"Why, this is Christmas Day!"

Tonight is Christmas Eve!
Goodnight!
Goodnight!
Old Santa roams the Earth tonight!

Today is Christmas morn!
Awake!
Awake!
Ths slumber from thine eyelids shake!
No such delight through all the year.
As comes with Santa's Christmas cheer.

Christmas Eve has come at last!
The day of all most glad
The angels sing with joy and praise
Christmas Eve has come at last
That day of all most blessed.

Our hearts grow tender with childhood memories and love of kindred,
and we are better throughout the year for having,
in spirir,
become a child again at Christmastime.

What Eve is like the Christmas Eve?
In any land,
A day so grand,
So pure as Christmas Day.

I have always thought of Christmas time as a good time
A kind, forgiving, charitable, pleasant time.
The only time I know of
In the long calendar of the year,
when men and women seem by one consent to open their shut-up hearts freely,
and to think of people below them as if they really were fellow-passengers to the grave,
and not another race of creatures bound on other journeys.

There's a sound of a festure morrow,
It rungs with delight o'er the snow,
Dispelling the shadows of sorrow
With promise that makes the heart glow..
An angel peeps in at the window,
And smiles as he looketh around,
and kisses the mistletoe berries
That wave o'er the love-hallow'd ground.

Soon will old Santa Claus arrive,
On Christmas Eve, Christmas Eve..
Long live the Christmas fairy who
Has taught the good we ought to do,
And ever, ever keep in view,
On Christmas Eve, Christmas Eve,
Not only self, but others too,
On Christmas Eve, tra la!

The best of all gifts around any Christmas tree,
the presence of a happy family
All wrapped up in each other.

Christmas Eve,
I will get my gifts,
Everything that heart could wish.

Christmas Eve came at last.
The day was bright and beautiful,
The ground crisp and hard,
and the hoary trees shining like diamonds!
What a happy day it brought to many,
to most!
Even in the poorest village,
A little green fir branch testified,
that it was Christmas Eve

So remember while December,
Brings the only Christmas Day,
In the year let there be Christmas
In the things we do and say
Wouldn't life be worth the living
Wouldn't dreams be coming true
If we kept the Christmas spirit
All the whole year through.

A Christmas family party!
We know nothing in nature more delightful!

Are they Christmas fairies stealing
Rows of little socks to fill?
Are they angels floating hither
With their message of goodwill?
With sweet spell are these elves weaving,
as like larks they chirp and sing?

Santa Claus is jolly, sir
Santa Claus is kind, sir
Santa Claus on Christmas Eve,
Comes riding on the wind, sir.
Have you not seen our Santa Claus,
With hair so snowy white, sir?
Just hang your stocking Christmas Eve,
He'll come that very night, sir.
And if you watch, perhaps you'll see
This friend in furs hid deep, sir.
But I have never seen him once,
I'm always fast asleep, sir.

And, so, Christmas comes to bless us!
Comes to teach us how to find
The joy of giving happiness
And the joy of being kind.

Dwelling houses and shops were ornamented with branches of laurel and wreaths of holly.
There are in abundance meats and vegetables and fruits of all kinds,
pastry and confectionery,
colored and shapred in so many ways that it would be impossible to describe them.
I see passing before me on the panorama
all the kind souls that it would be impossible to describe them.
I see passing before me on the panorama
all the kind souls that on Christmas Eve are busying themselves
to find out the many
whose limited means will not allow them to distinguish the morrow from other days

The bells ring out,
and how they dance
Below, around the Christmas tree!

May peace be your gift at Christmas and your blessing all year through

Christmas Eve ought to be a very joyful evening to us
in all of its associations
in all the truths
which ir naturally brings to the soul
A man's soul is to be as the heavens were on the night
when the shepherds looked up and saw them
full of angels as well as stars.

Once again, my dear people,
Merry Christmas is here,
With holly and mistletoe
And its good will and cheer!
With its joys and its heartaches,
With its laughter and song,
It comes as a reminder
That time marches along.

Christmas!
The very word brings joy to our hearts.
No matter how we may dread the rush,
the long Christmas lists for gifts and cards to be bought and given
When Christmas Day comes there is still the same warm feeling we had as children,
the same warmth that enfolds our hearts and our homes

Remember, this December,
That love weighs more than gold!

May you have the gladness of Christmas,
Which is Hope,
The spirit of Christmas,
Which is Peace,
The heart of Christmas,
Which is Love

In prickly green of Christmas wreaths
The holly berries glow,
The Christmas trees will sparkle soon,
With Christmas fruit bent low.

Christmas is forever,
not for just one day,
like bells and lights and tinsel,
in some box upon a shelf.
The good you do for others is good you do yourself.

Santa Claus comes down the chimney on Christmas Eve,
and puts nuts, cakes, sugarplums and pieces of money into huge stockings.
In the morning, children take delight in the treasures!

Oh Christmas Bells,
your music dwells forever in the old man's mind,
recalls the truth of honest youth,
the days he's left so far behind.

Christmas Eve dawned upon a heavy fall of snow.
There were two tiny baskets of holly berries.
They put a sprig of wax flowers and strawberry balls in the holly wreath,
and then went off to the belfry where all the singers were assembled.
The grand old peal rang out full and strong on the midnight air,
and the tower rocked and quivered to the swing of the bells,
and the first hour of Christ's own day began.

At Christmas play,
and make good cheer,
For Christmas comes but once a year!

A cup of ale,
A merry tale,
Of days of olden time,
And Christmas good cheer,
To wind up the year
With glad frolic, and fun, and glee.

It was a full week until Christmas,
but the den blazed with lights and smelled deliciously of pine needles.

I wish we could preserve and put up this sacred Christmas spirit
in one-pound tin boxes,
like holiday fruitcake
and open a box of it every profane month all year long.

I love the Christmas-tide, and yet,
I notice this,
each year I live,
I always like the gifts I get,
But how I love the gifts I give!

The festivity of this holy time is greatly enhanced by our knowing,
that while we are rejoicing at the splendor of the lights,
at the jubilee of the children,
and their sparkling eyes,
millions of people in every part of the great earth have the same feeling,
and that the same thrill of joy pervades the whole world during these evening hours.
In how many places have I passed this holy season!
In the farthest south,
there is the same rejoicing as in the north,
light and life triumph over darkness and death,
and so everywhere, the holy Christmas Eve gladdens the eyes of hearts of men
with the splendor of lights,
and tries to chase away the gloom of the night.

It came without ribbons!
It came without tags!
Then the Grinch thought of something he hadn't before!
Maybe Christmas he thought
Doesn't come from a store.
Maybe Christmas perhaps means a little bit more!

It is Christmas Eve,
and the fairies come to good children
and bring them gingerbread!

For Christmas comes but once a year,
When harvesting is ended,
With merry din, the day comes in,
by love and mirth attended.
The children dance and shout with glee,
The eyes of all are beaming.
And high above the Christmas tree
The Star of Hope is gleaming.

After the children, stuffed and sleepy, finally went to bed,
Gertrude and Arnold sat together in the love seat and watched the tree lights blink.

We ring the bells and we raise the strain,
We hang up garlands everywhere.
And bid the tapers twinkle fair,
And feast and frolic
And then we go back to the same old lives again.

In those old days,
Those fair old days,
What fancies would we weave, while we sat,
Waiting for the old Saint to come on Christmas Eve!
The stockings, limp and shadow-like against the ruddy glow,
Agape in their expectancy, swung in a slanting row,
That matched the difference in height of all our wondering heads
We watched the fairy flames toss up their wealth of jewel-reds.

Christmas means fellowship, feasting, giving and receiving, a time of good cheer, home

It matters not what the custom may be,
For Christmas is loved by you and by me!
Yes, the years may come and the years may go,
But when December wind doth, coldly, blow,
We all, I guess, are just children once more
And we plan our gifts, as we did of yore.

The best Christmas trees come very close to exceeding nature.
If some of our great decorated trees have grown in a remote forest area
with lights that came on every evening as it grew dark
The whole world would come to look at them and marvel at the mystery of their great beauty.

Very gay they were with snow and sleigh bells,holly boughs, and garlands,below,
And Christmas sunshine in the winter sky above.
All faces shone,
all voices had a cheery ring,
and everybody stepped briskly on errands of goodwill.

It is the blessed Christmas tide,
the Eve of the holy Christmas Day.
The snowflakes are falling softly and silently,
as do the blessings of the season,
on all who greet it with hearts pure, loving and true,
It is spreading a winding sheet over the plains,
loading down the fir-boughs in the forests,
and lies in heaps upon the thatch of the woodcutter's cottage,
whitening the monastery,
its walls and eaves,
putting snowy crowns on the castle's ancient towers,
frosting the cities,
incrusting spire and chimney, building and town.

Used to think that Christmas was nothing but a day
To get a lot o' presents and to give a lot away
Shouted "Merry Christmas" and helped to trim the tree.
Just a day o' Christmas was all that I could see.
Since I found that Christmas is more than just a day.
Christmas came to our house and never went away.
Struck me of a sudden that friendliness and cheer.
Was meant to be on duty more than one day in the year!
If we're happy Christmas, why not the day before
An' the day that follows and so on, evermore?

There is something in the very season of the year,
that gives a charm to the festivity of Christmas.
The imagination turns everything to melody and beauty!
It is, indeed, the season for kindling,
not merely the fire of hospitality in the hall,
but the genial flame of charity in the heart.
What bosom can remain insensible to the call of happiness,
the bustle of the spirits, and stir of the affections?

I heard the bells on Christmas Day
Their old, familiar carols play,
And wild and sweet
The words repeat
Of peace on earth,
goodwill to men!

Christmas is coming
It is almost here.
With Santa and presents,
goodwill and cheer!

Somebody is coming here tonight,
When the skies are dark and the stars are bright,
And I thought I'd leave him a little bite.
He's a gentleman,
jolly and generous too,
He is short and fat and his eyes are blue,
And he always comes to us down the flue.
He waits till he's sure we're sound asleep -
He wouldn't come if he thought we would peep,
For he has secrets he wants to keep.

My childhood's Christmases each brought to me,
The wonderous glory of a Christmas tree,
Now, every year, since I've to manhood grown,
I buy a tree for children of my own.
And so tonight my mind looks back and sees
Life a long avenue of Christmas trees.

Unbar your heart this evening
And keep no stranger out,
Take from your soul's great portal
The barrier of doubt
To humble folk and weary
Give hearty welcoming,
Your breast shall be tomorrow
The cradle of a King.

Christmas is not a time or a season, but a state of mind.
To cherish peace and goodwill,
to be plenteous in mercy, is to have the real spirit of Christmas.

A man is at his finest towards the finish of the year,
He is almost what he should be when the Christmas season's here,
Then he's thinking more of others than he's thought the months before,
And the laughter of his children is a joy worth toiling for.
He is less a selfish creature than at any other time.
When the Christmas spirit rules him he comes close to the sublime.

It was still quite light,
and the streets were thronged with old and young,
engaged in buying little Christmas gifts at this last moment,
or in looking into the brilliantly lighted windows
and enjoying the fun and happiness that Christmas Eve always seems to bring.

Tis blessed to bestow, and yet,
Could we bestow the gifts we get,
And keep the ones we give away,
How happy were our Christmas day!

Twas the night before Christmas, when all through the house
Not a creature was storring, not even a mouse
The stockings were hung by the chimney with care
In hopes that St. Nicholas soon would be there.

We hear the beating of wings over Bethlehem,
and a light that is not of the sun or of the stars shines in the midnight sky.
Let the beauty of the story take away all narrowness,
all thought of formal creeds.
Let it be remembered as a story that has happened again and again,
to men of many different races,
that has been expressed through many religions,
that has been called bby different names.
Time and space and language lay no limitations upon human brotherhood.

I think that I shall never see
A sight more festive than a tree
A tree just full of Christmas cheer
At this most happy time of year.

Love came down at Christmas,
Love all lovely, Love Divine,
Love was born at Christmas,
Stars and Angels gave the sign

That is the glory of Christmas.
It triumphs over all obstacles,
It breaks down all barriers,
It flourishes in all countries and in every heart.
For the spirit of Christmas fulfills the greatest hunger of mankind.

C is for the candy trimmed around the Christmas tree
H is for the happiness with all the family
R is for the reindeer prancing by the window pane
I is for the icing on the cake as sweet as sugar cane
S is for the stocking on the chimney wall
T is the toys beneath the tree so tall
M is for the mistletoe where everyone is kissed
A is for the angels who make up the Christmas list
S is for old Santa who makes every kid his pet
Be good and he'll bring your everything in your Christmas alphabet.

Now the joyful sound is at the heart of Christmas.
No time in the year, beside, is so full of this blessing.
Christmas time is the crown,
and Christmas Day the rare jewel in thr crown of it all.
In my dear old motherland,
where holidays come far more frequently than we can as yet permit them to come in this new world,
Christmas always has a peerless place.
How well I remember,
the yule cake in the oven and the great yule log kindled from a bit of the old log.
And on Christmas Eve, a slumber troubled with excess of joy,
up to midnight,
with the joyful clash of the church bells following the last stroke of the clock,
and ushering in the Christmas morning.
Then a tumult of joy, breaking out everywhere into "Merry Christmas"
and transmutting one of the shortest days into by far the longest day of the year,
While every cottage was decked with bright holly,
green as the green of June.
So the Christmas of our childhood abides in our life,
an indestructible substance of joy.

The Christmas bells from hill to hill,
Answer each other in the mist.

When Christmas bells are swinging above the fields of snow,
We hear sweet voices ringing from lands of long ago.
And etched on vacant places,
Are half-forgotten faces
Of friends we used to cherish and loved we used to know.

All my heart the night rejoices,
As I hear,
Far and near,
Sweetest angel voices,
Their choirs are singing,
Till the air
Everywhere
Now with joy is ringing.

Let Christmas not become a thing
Merely of merchant's trafficking.
Of tinsel, bell and holly wreath
And surface pleasure,but beneath
The childish glamour, let us find
Nourishment for soul and mind.
Let us follow kinder ways
Through our teeming human maze,
And help the age of peace to come
From a Dreamer's martyrdom.

Though I sit in darkness this Christmas Eve,
I know that the world is fair,
And the musical chime of the Christmas bells,
Will ring on the morning air.

I'm dreaming og a white Christmas,
Just like the ones I used to know.
Where the tree tops glisten
And children listen
To hear sleigh bells in the snow.

Christmas is a day of meaning and traditions.
A special day spent in the warm circle of family and friends.

When the boys were in the parlour, so fragrant, so bright,
And saw the beautiful Nativity arranged there,
unbounded delight flooded their hearts.
Who is he that has seen a Nativity and has not felt it?
Who has not found himself there in that fantastic world of cork and gummed paper,
with its shadowy caves,
The sweet and simple achronisms,
the animals reposing with all ease and swollen to dimensions unknown to naturalists?

Christmas wouldn't be the same,
if we couldn't get in touch
With all the friends and family
Who mean so very much.
Each Christmas we have shared,
with friends both far and near,
has made our years together,
so memorable and dear.

The yule log is a huge log which is placed on the fire on Christmas Eve.
The father of the family sings solemnly Christmas carols with his wife and children,
the smallest of whom he sends into the corner to pray that the yule log may bear him some sugar plums
Meanwhile, little parcels of them are placed under each end of the log,
and the children come and pick them up,
believing in good faith that the great log has borne them.

Christmas time! That man must be a misanthrope indeed, in whose breast something like a jovial feeling is not roused
in whose mind some pleasant associations are not awakened — by the recurrence of Christmas.
There are people who will tell you that Christmas is not to them what it used to be                                                              ;
that each succeeding Christmas has found some cherished hope, or happy prospect, of the year before,dimmed or passed away                        ;
that the present only serves to remind them of reduced circumstances and straitened incomes
of the feasts they once bestowed on hollow friends, and of the cold looks that meet them now, in adversity and misfortune.
Never heed such dismal reminiscences.
There are few men who have lived long enough in the world, who cannot call up such thoughts any day in the year.
Then do not select the merriest of the three hundred and sixty-five, for your doleful recollections, but draw your chair nearer the blazing fire
fill the glass and send round the song
and if your room be smaller than it was a dozen years ago
or if your glass be filled with reeking punch, instead of sparkling wine
put a good face on the matter, and empty it off-hand, and fill another,
and troll off the old ditty you used to sing, and thank God it's no worse.
Look on the merry faces of your children (if you have any) as they sit round the fire.
One little seat may be empty                                                                                                                     ; one slight form that gladdened the father's heart,
and roused the mother's pride to look upon, may not be there.
Dwell not upon the past                                                                                                                          ; think not that one short year ago,
the fair child now resolving to dust, sat before you, with the bloom of health upon its cheek, and the gaiety of infancy in its joyous eye.
Reflect upon your present blessings — of which every man has many — not on your past misfortunes, of which all men have some.
Fill your glass again, with a merry face and contented heart.
Our life on it, but your Christmas shall be merry, and your new year a happy one!

Whene'er I find a man who don't
Believe in Santa Claus,
And spite of all remonstrance won't
Yield up to logic's laws,
And see in things that lie about
The proof by no means dim,
I straightway cut that fellow out,
And don't believe in him...

Open your presents at Christmastime but be thankful year-round for the gifts you receive.

The worst gift is a fruitcake.
There is only one fruitcake in the entire world, and people keep sending it to each other

Dear Santa:
For my yuletide bring me, please,
A blight to ruin blinking Christmas trees
On people's lawns, and for suburbanites
Who deck their juniper with purple lights
I'd like a special pox, and, if you will,
Please leave an extra-potent deadly ill
At homes whose every bilious window seethes
With red-light-bearing artificial wreaths.
And on the credit side, you might supply
A merry Christmas to the gracious guy
Who decks his doorway with a holly sprig—
Unlighted, genuine, and not too big.

I hear that in many places something has happened to Christmas                                                                                                ;
that it is changing from a time of merriment and carefree gaiety to a holiday which is filled with tedium
that many people dread the day and the obligation to give Christmas presents is a nightmare to weary,bored souls                                              ;
that the children of enlightened parents no longer believe in Santa Claus                                                                                     ;
that all in all, the effort to be happy and have pleasure makes many honest hearts grow dark with despair instead of beaming with good will and cheerfulness.

What kind of Christmas present would Jesus ask Santa for?

The universal joy of Christmas is certainly wonderful.
We ring the bells when princes are born, or toll a mournful dirge when great men pass away.
Nations have their red-letter days, their carnivals and festivals,
but once in the year and only once, the whole world stands still to celebrate the advent of a life.
Only Jesus of Nazareth claims this world-wide, undying remembrance.
You cannot cut Christmas out of the Calendar, nor out of the heart of the world.

Christmas is the season for kindling the fire of hospitality in the hall,
the genial flame of charity in the heart.

‘Twas Christmas broach’d the mightiest ale                                   ;
‘Twas Christmas told the merriest tale                                         ;
A Christmas gambol oft could cheer The poor man’s heart through half the year.

Christmas, my child, is love in action.
Every time we love, every time we give, it’s Christmas.

The spirit of Christmas is always near                                                    ;
it shines like a beacon throughout the year.
Don’t look in a store or high on a shelf, for sharing and giving are found in yourself.

Be merry all, be merry all,
With holly dress the festive hall      ;
Prepare the song, the feast, the ball,
To welcome merry Christmas.

I heard the bells on Christmas Day Their old,
familiar carols play, And wild and sweet The words repeat Of peace on earth,
goodwill to men!

Wouldn’t life be worth the living
Wouldn’t dreams be coming true
If we kept the Christmas spirit
All the whole year through?

He sees you when you’re sleeping,
he knows when you’re awake.
He knows when you’ve been bad or good,
so be good, for goodness sake!

A very Merry Christmas and a happy new year.
Let’s hope it’s a good one, without any fear.

Jingle Bells, jingle bells, jingle all the way!
Oh what fun it is to ride, in a one horse open sleigh.

I won’t ask for much this Christmas.
I won’t even wish for snow.
And I’m just gonna keep on waiting, underneath the mistletoe.
All I want for Christmas is you, yeah.
And I Don’t care about the presents Underneath the Christmas tree
I don’t need to hang my stocking There upon the fireplace
Santa Claus won’t make me happy.

Rockin’ around the Christmas tree.
At the Christmas party hop.
Mistletoe hung where you can see.
Every couple tries to stop.
Rockin’ around the Christmas tree.
Let the Christmas spirit ring.
Later we’ll have some pumpkin pie.

Last Christmas, I gave you my heart,
but the very next day, you gave it away.
This year, to save me from tears, I’ll give it to someone special.

Good tidings we bring to you and your kin.
We wish you a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.

Oh the fire is slowly dying.
And, my dear, were still good-bye-ing. But as long as you love me so,
let it snow, let it snow, let it snow.

Christmas Eve will find me, where the lovelight gleams.
I’ll be home for Christmas, if only in my dreams.

Sing a song of gladness and cheer
For the time of Christmas is here
Look around about you and see What a world of wonder
This world can be.

There must have been some magic in that old silk hat they found,
for when they placed it on his head,
he began to dance around!

What a bright time,
it’s the right time,
to rock the night away.

Santa, tell me if he really cares.
‘Cause I can’t give it all away if he won’t be here next year.
Oh, I wanna have him beside me, like oh-woo-oh.
On the 25th, by that fireplace, oh-woo-oh.
But I don’t want a new broken heart.
This year I’ve got to be smart.
Oh, baby.

Doesn’t it feel like Christmas
it feels lovely
Doesn’t it feel like Christmas
feels so lovely
Doesn’t it feel like Christmas
oh oh oh oh
Yes, it feels like Christmas
Doesn’t it feel like Christmas
it feels lovely
Doesn’t it feel like Christmas
feels so lovely
Doesn’t it feel like Christmas
the spirit of Christmas
Yes, it feels like Christmas

Silent night!
Holy night!
All is calm!
All is bright!

Christmas won’t be the same without you.
Christmas won’t be the same if you go.
You’re all I need to see, standing by my Christmas tree.
‘Cause Christmas won’t be the same without you

There’ll be parties for hosting, marshmallows for toasting and caroling out in the snow.

But I’d never steal from Santa,
cause that ain’t right.
So I’m going home to mail it back to him that night.
But when I got home I bugged,
cause under the tree, was a letter from Santa,
and all the dough was for me!

Hark now,
hear the angels sing,
a King was born today.

Have yourself a merry little Christmas.
Let your heart be light.
From now on your troubles will be out of sight.

Christmas time is here,
happiness and cheer.
Fun for all that children call,
their favorite time of year.

Sleigh bells ring, are you listening?
In the lane, snow is glistening.
A beautiful sight,
we’re happy tonight.
Walking in a winter wonderland.

Jingle bell, jingle bell, jingle bell rock
Jingle bells swing and jingle bells ring
Snowin’ and blowin’ up bushels of fun
Now the jingle hop has begun.

Jingle bell, jingle bell, jingle bell rock
Jingle bell chime in jingle bell time
Dancin’ and prancin’ in Jingle Bell Square
In the frosty air.

It’s beginning to look a lot like Christmas,
toys in ev’ry store.
But the prettiest sight to see,
is the holly that will be on your own front door.

Said the little lamb to the shepherd boy,
do you hear what I hear?

Grandma got run over by a reindeer,
walking home from our Christmas eve.
You can say there’s no such thing as Santa,
but as for me and Grandpa,
we believe.

Rocking around the Christmas tree,
have a happy holiday.
Everyone dancing merrily,
in a new old-fashioned way.

O Christmas tree,
O Christmas tree,
how faithful are thy branches?

The mood is right,
the spirits up.
We’re here tonight and that’s enough.
Simply having a wonderful Christmas time.

Oh, what a laugh,
it would have been,
if Daddy had only seen,
Mommy kissing Santa Claus last night.

I’ll have a blue Christmas without you.
I’ll be so blue just thinking about you.
Decorations of red on a green Christmas tree,
won’t be the same dear, if you’re not hear with me.

Hark how the bells Sweet silver bells All seem to say
Throw cares away
Christmas is here
Bringing good cheer
To young and old Meek and the bold Ding-dong,
ding-dong
That is the song With joyful ring All caroling
Oh, oh, ah

Rudolph the red-nosed reindeer,
had a very shiny nose.
And if you ever saw it,
you would even say it glows.

Joy to the world,
the Lord is come!
Let earth receive her King.

Away in a manger,
no crib for a bed.
The little Lord Jesus laid down his sweet head.

Come and trim my Christmas tree,
with some decorations bought at Tiffany.
I really do believe in you,
let’s see if you believe in me.

Silver bells,
silver bells,
it’s Christmas time in the city.
Ring-a-ling,
hear them ring,
soon it will be Christmas day.

I really can’t stay
but baby, its’s cold outside.
I’ve got to go away
but baby, it’s cold outside

Merry Christmas baby,
sure do treat me nice.
You bought me all those good ole presents,
I love you baby, rest of my life.

Now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judaea in the days of Herod the king,
behold, there came wise men from the east to Jerusalem,
Saying, Where is he that is born King of the Jews?
for we have seen his star in the east, and are cometo worship him.
When Herod the king had heard these things,
he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him.
And when he had gathered all the chief priests and scribes of the people together,
he demanded of them where Christ should be born.
And they said unto him, In Bethlehem of Judaea:
for thus it is written by the prophet,
And thou Bethlehem, in the land of Juda, art not the least among the princes of Juda:
for out of thee shall come a Governor, that shall rule my people Israel.
Then Herod, when he had privily called the wise men,
enquired of them diligently what time the star appeared.
And he sent them to Bethlehem, and said, Go and search diligently for the young child                                      ;
and when ye have found him, bring me word again, that I may come and worship him also
When they had heard the king, they departed                                                                                ;
and, lo, the star, which they saw in the east, went before them,
till it came and stood over where the young child was.
When they saw the star, they rejoiced with exceeding great joy.
And when they were come into the house, they saw the young child with Mary his mother, and fell down,and worshipped him:
and when they had opened their treasures, they presented unto him gifts                                                    ; gold, and frankincense and myrrh.
And being warned of God in a dream that they should not return to Herod, they departed into their own country another way.

On the night before Christmas, a child in a house,
As the whole family slept, behaved just like a mouse . . .
And crept on soft toes down red-carpeted stairs.
Her hand held the paw of her favourite bear.
The Christmas tree posed with its lights in its arms,
Newly tinselled and baubled with glittering charms           ;
Flirting in flickers of crimson and green
Against the dull glass of the mute TV screen
The hushed street was in darkness. Snow duveted the cars –
A stray cat had embroidered each roof with its paws.
An owl on an aerial had planets for eyes.
The child at the window stared up at the sky,
Where two aeroplanes sped to the east and the west,
Like a pulled Christmas cracker. The child held her breath
And looked for a sign up above, as the moon
Shone down like a gold chocolate coin on the town.

'Twas the night before Christmas, when all thro’ the house,
Not a creature was stirring, not even a mouse                 ;
The stockings were hung by the chimney with care,
In hopes that St. Nicholas soon would be there                ;
The children were nestled all snug in their beds,
While visions of sugar plums danc’d in their heads,
And Mama in her ‘kerchief, and I in my cap,
Had just settled our brains for a long winter’s nap —
When out on the lawn there arose such a clatter,
I sprang from the bed to see what was the matter.
Away to the window I flew like a flash,
Tore open the shutters, and threw up the sash.
The moon on the breast of the new fallen snow,
Gave the lustre of mid-day to objects below                   ;
When, what to my wondering eyes should appear,
But a miniature sleigh, and eight tiny rein-deer,
With a little old driver, so lively and quick,
I knew in a moment it must be St. Nick.
More rapid than eagles his coursers they came,
And he whistled, and shouted, and call’d them by name:
“Now! Dasher, now! Dancer, now! Prancer, and Vixen,
“On! Comet, on! Cupid, on! Dunder and Blixem                ;
“To the top of the porch! to the top of the wall!
“Now dash away! dash away! dash away all!”
As dry leaves before the wild hurricane fly,
When they meet with an obstacle, mount to the sky             ;
So up to the house-top the coursers they flew,
With the sleigh full of Toys — and St. Nicholas too:
And then in a twinkling, I heard on the roof
The prancing and pawing of each little hoof.
As I drew in my head, and was turning around,
Down the chimney St. Nicholas came with a bound:
He was dress’d all in fur, from his head to his foot,
And his clothes were all tarnish’d with ashes and soot      ;
A bundle of toys was flung on his back,
And he look’d like a peddler just opening his pack:
His eyes — how they twinkled! his dimples how merry,
His cheeks were like roses, his nose like a cherry            ;
His droll little mouth was drawn up like a bow.
And the beard of his chin was as white as the snow            ;
The stump of a pipe he held tight in his teeth,
And the smoke it encircled his head like a wreath.
He had a broad face, and a little round belly
That shook when he laugh’d, like a bowl full of jelly:
He was chubby and plump, a right jolly old elf,
And I laugh’d when I saw him in spite of myself             ;
A wink of his eye and a twist of his head
Soon gave me to know I had nothing to dread.
He spoke not a word, but went straight to his work,
And fill’d all the stockings                                ; then turn’d with a jerk,
And laying his finger aside of his nose
And giving a nod, up the chimney he rose.
He sprung to his sleigh, to his team gave a whistle,
And away they all flew, like the down of a thistle:
But I heard him exclaim, ere he drove out of sight —
'Happy Christmas to all, and to all a good night.'

Love came down at Christmas,
Love all lovely, Love Divine    ;
Love was born at Christmas,
Star and angels gave the sign.
Worship we the Godhead,
Love Incarnate, Love Divine     ;
Worship we our Jesus:
But wherewith for sacred sign?
Love shall be our token,
Love be yours and love be mine,
Love to God and all men,
Love for plea and gift and sign

Santa needs new reindeer.
The first bunch has grown old.
Dasher has arthritis           ;
Comet hates the cold.
Prancer's sick of staring
at Dancer's big behind.
Cupid married Blitzen
and Donder lost his mind.
Dancer's mad at Vixen
for stepping on his toes.
Vixen's being thrown out—
she laughed at Rudolph's nose.
If you are a reindeer
we hope you will apply.
There is just one tricky part:
You must know how to fly.

It never snows at Christmas in that dry and dusty land.
Instead of freezing blizzards, there are palms and drifting sands,
and years ago a stable and a most unusual star
and three wise men who followed it, by camel, not by car,
while, sleepy on the quiet hills, a shepherd gave a cry.
He'd seen a crowd of angels in the silent starlit sky.
In the stable, ox and ass stood very still and calm
and gazed upon the baby, safe and snug in Mary's arms.
And Joseph, lost in shadows, face lit by an oil lamp's glow
stood wondering, that first Christmas Day, two thousand years ago

King John was not a good man —
He had his little ways.
And sometimes no one spoke to him
For days and days and days.
And men who came across him,
When walking in the town,
Gave him a supercilious stare,
Or passed with noses in the air —
And bad King John stood dumbly there,
Blushing beneath his crown.
King John was not a good man,
And no good friends had he.
He stayed in every afternoon…
But no one came to tea.
And, round about December,
The cards upon his shelf
Which wished him lots of Christmas cheer,
And fortune in the coming year,
Were never from his near and dear,
But only from himself.
King John was not a good man,
Yet had his hopes and fears.
They’d given him no present now
For years and years and years.
But every year at Christmas,
While minstrels stood about,
Collecting tribute from the young
For all the songs they might have sung,
He stole away upstairs and hung
A hopeful stocking out.
King John was not a good man,
He lived his live aloof                            ;
Alone he thought a message out
While climbing up the roof.
He wrote it down and propped it
Against the chimney stack:
'TO ALL AND SUNDRY – NEAR AND FAR –
F. Christmas in particular.'
And signed it not 'Johannes R.'
But very humbly, 'Jack.'
'I want some crackers,
And I want some candy                              ;
I think a box of chocolates
Would come in handy                                ;
I don’t mind oranges,
I do like nuts!
And I SHOULD like a pocket-knife
That really cuts.
And, oh! Father Christmas, if you love me at all,
Bring me a big, red, india-rubber ball!'
King John was not a good man —
He wrote this message out,
And gat him to this room again,
Descending by the spout.
And all that night he lay there,
A prey to hopes and fears.
'I think that’s him a-coming now!'
Anxiety bedewed his brow.
'He’ll bring one present, anyhow —
The first I had for years.'
'Forget about the crackers,
And forget the candy                               ;
I’m sure a box of chocolates
Would never come in handy                          ;
I don’t like oranges,
I don’t want nuts,
And I HAVE got a pocket-knife
That almost cuts.
But, oh! Father Christmas, if you love me at all,
Bring me a big, red, india-rubber ball!'
King John was not a good man,
Next morning when the sun
Rose up to tell a waiting world
That Christmas had begun,
And people seized their stockings,
And opened them with glee,
And crackers, toys and games appeared,
And lips with sticky sweets were smeared,
King John said grimly: 'As I feared,
Nothing again for me!'
'I did want crackers,
And I did want candy                               ;
I know a box of chocolates
Would come in handy                                ;
I do love oranges,
I did want nuts!
I haven't got a pocket-knife —
Not one that cuts.
And, oh! if Father Christmas, had loved me at all,
He would have brought a big, red,
india-rubber ball!'
King John stood by the window,
And frowned to see below
The happy bands of boys and girls
All playing in the snow.
A while he stood there watching,
And envying them all …
When through the window big and red
There hurtled by his royal head,
And bounced and fell upon the bed,
An india-rubber ball!
AND, OH, FATHER CHRISTMAS,
MY BLESSINGS ON YOU FALL
FOR BRINGING HIM A BIG, RED,INDIA-RUBBER BALL!

It’s cold without the softness of a fall
Of snow to give these scenes a common bond
And though, besotted on a viewless rime,
The ducks can do their standing-on-the-pond
Routine that leaves you howling, all in all
We need some snow to hush the whole thing up.
The ducks can do their flatfoot-waterfool
Mad act that leaves you helpless, but in fine
We need their footprints in a higher field
Made pure powder, need their wig-wag line
Of little kites pressed in around the pool:
An afternoon of snow should cover that.
Some crystalline precipitate should throw
Its multifarious weightlessness around
For half a day and paint the whole place out,
Bring back a soft regime to bitter ground:
An instant plebiscite would vote for snow
So overwhelmingly if we could call it now.
An afternoon of snow should cover that
Milk-bottle neck bolt upright in the slime
Fast frozen at the pond’s edge, brutal there:
We need to see junk muffled, whitewashed grime,
Lean brittle ice grown comfortably fat,
A world prepared to take our footprints in.
A world prepared to take our footprints in
Needs painting out, needs be a finer field:
So overwhelmingly, if we could call it now,
The fluffy stuff would prime it: it would yield
To lightest step, be webbed and toed and heeled,
Pushed flat, smoothed off, heaped high, pinched anyhow,
Yet be inviolable. Put like that,
Gently, the cold makes sense. Snow links things up.

There’s a holy light like a beacon bright,
Afar over land and sea.
Soft its lambent ray o’er the broad earth plays
With a rosy dancing glee,
And the topmost peak of the mountains bleak
Blush fair in the glowing morn.
Over wood and tarn sweeps the glorious dawn
To herald the Child-Christ born.
White the sea-waves fling like an angel’s wing
The foam as their blue crests rise,
While each gallant ship, with a skim and a dip,
In the wind’s lap speeding flies                ;
And the sailor’s song is borne along
The breeze of the golden morn,
For joyous he sings as the mast he swings
To herald the Child-Christ born.
In the land of snow where the keen winds blow
And the ice-king holds his sway,
A glittering sheen on the plains is seen,
As tribute to him they pay.
While merrily sing with a peal and a ring
The bells on the crystal morn,
As gayly they chime with silvery rhyme
To herald the Child-Christ born.
To his sea-girt home, where’er he may roam,
Speed the thoughts of Briton’s son.
In city or plain, on the crested main,
The heart of the absent one
Again in his dreams with ecstasy seems
To swell in the happy morn,
As he hears the voice of his loved rejoice,
To herald the Child-Christ born.
In dreams borne along, he joins the glad throng,
The riot and wassail gay                          ;
And the boar’s head bold as in Nowel old
Brave crowns the feast of the day                 ;
The holly’s red blush ’mid the ivy’s crush  ;
The mistletoe greets the morn
With kisses to claim in love’s holy name,
To herald the Child-Christ born.
Then Charity sweet with most gracious feet
Walks forth o’er the smiling land,
To widow’s relief, to fatherless grief,
She bringeth a helping hand.
For peace and good-will the whole world doth fill
With the dawn of the Nowel morn.
Let every heart sing a glad welcoming,
To herald the Child-Christ born.

Oh! Christmas wreath upon the wall,
Within thine ivied space
I see the years beyond recall,
Amid thy leaves I trace
The shadows of a happy past,
When all the world was bright,
And love its magic splendour cast
O’er morn and noon and night.
Oh! Christmas wreath upon the wall,
’Neath memory’s tender spell
A wondrous charm doth o’er thee fall,
And round thy beauty dwell.
Thine ivy hath the satiny sheen
Of tresses I’ve caressed,
Thy holly’s crimson gleam I’ve seen
On lips I oft have pressed.
Oh! Christmas wreath upon the wall,
A mist steals o’er my sight.
Dear hallow’d wreath, these tears are all
The pledge I now can plight
To those loved ones whose spirit eyes
Shine down the flight of time               ;
Around God’s throne their voices rise
To swell the Christmas Chime!

A frosty Christmas Eve
when the stars were shining
Fared I forth alone
where westward falls the hill,
And from many a village
in the water'd valley
Distant music reach'd me
peals of bells aringing:
The constellated sounds
ran sprinkling on earth's floor
As the dark vault above
with stars was spangled o'er.
Then sped my thoughts to keep
that first Christmas of all
When the shepherds watching
by their folds ere the dawn
Heard music in the fields
and marveling could not tell
Whether it were angels
or the bright stars singing.
Now blessed be the tow'rs
that crown England so fair
That stand up strong in prayer
unto God for our souls
Blessed be their founders
said I an' our country folk
Who are ringing for Christ
in the belfries to-night
With arms lifted to clutch
the rattling ropes that race
Into the dark above
and the mad romping din.
But to me heard afar
it was starry music
Angels' song, comforting
as the comfort of Christ
When he spake tenderly
to his sorrowful flock:
The old words came to me
by the riches of time
Mellow'd and transfigured
as I stood on the hill
Heark'ning in the aspect
of th' eternal silence.

The holly! the holly! oh, twine it with bay—
Come give the holly a song                                   ;
For it helps to drive stern winter away,
With his garment so sombre and long.
It peeps through the trees with its berries of red,
And its leaves of burnish’d green,
When the flowers and fruits have long been dead,
And not even the daisy is seen,
Then sing to the holly, the Christmas holly,
That hangs over peasant and king:
While we laugh and carouse ’neath its glitt’ring boughs,
To the Christmas holly we’ll sing.
The gale may whistle, and frost may come,
To fetter the gurgling rill                                  ;
The woods may be bare, and the warblers dumb—
But the holly is beautiful still.
In the revel and light of princely halls,
The bright holly-branch is found                             ;
And its shadow falls on the lowliest walls,
While the brimming horn goes round.
Then drink to the holly, &c.
The ivy lives long, but its home must be
Where graves and ruins are spread                            ;
There’s beauty about the cypress tree,
But it flourishes near the dead:
The laurel the warrior’s brow may wreathe,
But it tells of tears and blood.
I sing the holly, and who can breathe
Aught of that that is not good?
Then sing to the holly, &c.

The Shepherds went their hasty way,
And found the lowly stable-shed
Where the Virgin-Mother lay:
And now they checked their eager tread,
For to the Babe, that at her bosom clung,
A Mother’s song the Virgin-Mother sung.
They told her how a glorious light,
Streaming from a heavenly throng,
Around them shone, suspending night!
While sweeter than a Mother’s song,
Blest Angels heralded the Saviour’s birth,
Glory to God on high! and Peace on Earth.
She listened to the tale divine,
And closer still the Babe she pressed                     ;
And while she cried, the Babe is mine!
The milk rushed faster to her breast:
Joy rose within her, like a summer’s morn               ;
Peace, Peace on Earth! the Prince of Peace is born.
Thou Mother of the Prince of Peace,
Poor, simple, and of low estate!
That Strife should vanish, Battle cease,
O why should this thy soul elate?
Sweet Music’s loudest note, the Poet’s story,—
Did’st thou ne’er love to hear of Fame and Glory?
And is not War a youthful King,
A stately Hero clad in Mail?
Beneath his footsteps laurels spring                      ;
Him Earth’s majestic monarchs hail
Their Friend, their Playmate! and his bold bright eye
Compels the maiden’s love-confessing sigh.
“Tell this in some more courtly scene,
“To maids and youths in robes of state!
“I am a woman poor and mean,
“And therefore is my Soul elate.
“War is a ruffian, all with guilt defiled,
“That from the aged Father tears his Child!
“A murderous fiend, by fiends adored,
“He kills the Sire and starves the Son                  ;
“The Husband kills, and from her board
“Steals all his Widow’s toil had won                  ;
“Plunders God’s world of beauty                       ; rends away
“All safety from the Night, all comfort from the Day.
“Then wisely is my soul elate,
“That Strife should vanish, Battle cease:
“I’m poor and of a low estate,
“The Mother of the Prince of Peace.
“Joy rises in me, like a summer’s morn:
“Peace, Peace on Earth, the Prince of Peace is born.”

At the break of Christmas Day,
Through the frosty starlight ringing,
Faint and sweet and far away,
Comes the sound of children, singing,
Chanting, singing,
“Cease to mourn,
For Christ is born,
Peace and joy to all men bringing!”
Careless that the chill winds blow,
Growing stronger, sweeter, clearer,
Noiseless footfalls in the snow,
Bring the happy voices nearer                ;
Hear them singing,
“Winter’s drear,
But Christ is here,
Mirth and gladness with Him bringing.”
“Merry Christmas!” hear them say,
As the East is growing lighter               ;
“May the joy of Christmas Day
Make your whole year gladder, brighter!”
Join their singing,
“To each home
Our Christ has come,
All Love’s treasures with Him bringing!”

The Savior must have been
A docile Gentleman—
To come so far so cold a Day
For little Fellowmen—
The Road to Bethlehem
Since He and I were Boys
Was leveled, but for that 'twould be
A rugged Billion Miles—

Ring out, ye bells!
All Nature swells
With gladness at the wondrous story,—
The world was lorn,
But Christ is born
To change our sadness into glory.
Sing, earthlings, sing!
To-night a King
Hath come from heaven's high throne to bless us.
The outstretched hand
O'er all the land
Is raised in pity to caress us.
Come at his call                                 ;
Be joyful all                                    ;
Away with mourning and with sadness!
The heavenly choir
With holy fire
Their voices raise in songs of gladness.
The darkness breaks
And Dawn awakes,
Her cheeks suffused with youthful blushes.
The rocks and stones
In holy tones
Are singing sweeter than the thrushes.
Then why should we
In silence be,
When Nature lends her voice to praises           ;
When heaven and earth
Proclaim the truth
Of Him for whom that lone star blazes?
No, be not still,
But with a will
Strike all your harps and set them ringing       ;
On hill and heath
Let every breath
Throw all its power into singing!

Here we broached the Christmas barrel,
Pushed up the charred log-ends         ;
Here we sang the Christmas carol,
And called in friends.
Time has tired me since we met here
When the folk now dead were young.
Since the viands were outset here
And quaint songs sung.
And the worm has bored the viol
That used to lead the tune,
Rust eaten out the dial
That struck night’s noon.
Now no Christmas brings in neighbours,
And the New Year comes unlit           ;
Where we sang the mole now labours,
And spiders knit.
Yet at midnight if here walking,
When the moon sheets wall and tree,
I see forms of old time talking,
Who smile on me.

Straight thro’ a fold of purple mist
The sun goes down—a crimson wheel—
And like an opal burns the sea
That once was cold as steel.
With pomp of purple, gold and red,
Thou wilt come back at morrow’s dawn…
But thou can’st never bring, O Sun,
The Christmas that is gone!

Led by a star, a golden star,
The youngest star, an olden star,
Here the kings and the shepherds are,
Akneeling on the ground.
What did they come to the inn to see?
God in the Highest, and this is He,
A baby asleep on His mother’s knee
And with her kisses crowned.
Now is the earth a dreary place,
A troubled place, a weary place.
Peace has hidden her lovely face
And turned in tears away.
Yet the sun, through the war-cloud, sees
Babies asleep on their mother’s knees.
While there are love and home—and these—
There shall be Christmas Day.

The Babe was laid in the Manger
Between the gentle kine—
All safe from cold and danger—
“But it was not so with mine,
With mine! With mine!
“Is it well with the child, is it well?”
The waiting mother prayed.
“For I know not how he fell,
And I know not where he is laid.”
A Star stood forth in Heaven                 ;
The Watchers ran to see
The Sign of the Promise given—
“But there comes no sign to me.
To me! To me!
“My child died in the dark.
Is it well with the child, is it well?
There was none to tend him or mark,
And I know not how he fell.”
The Cross was raised on high                 ;
The Mother grieved beside—
“But the Mother saw Him die
And took Him when He died.
He died! He died!
“Seemly and undefiled
His burial-place was made—
Is it well, is it well with the child?
For I know not where he is laid.”
On the dawning of Easter Day
Comes Mary Magdalene                         ;
But the Stone was rolled away,
And the Body was not within—
Within! Within!
“Ah, who will answer my word?”
The broken mother prayed.
“They have taken away my Lord,
And I know not where He is Laid.”
“The Star stands forth in Heaven.
The watchers watch in vain
For Sign of the Promise given
Of peace on Earth again—
Again! Again!
“But I know for Whom he fell”—
The steadfast mother smiled,
“Is it well with the child—is it well?
It is well—it is well with the child!”

I heard the bells on Christmas Day
Their old, familiar carols play,
And wild and sweet
The words repeat
Of peace on earth, good-will to men!
And thought how, as the day had come,
The belfries of all Christendom
Had rolled along
The unbroken song
Of peace on earth, good-will to men!
Till ringing, singing on its way,
The world revolved from night to day,
A voice, a chime,
A chant sublime
Of peace on earth, good-will to men!
Then from each black, accursed mouth
The cannon thundered in the South,
And with the sound
The carols drowned
Of peace on earth, good-will to men!
It was as if an earthquake rent
The hearth-stones of a continent,
And made forlorn
The households born
Of peace on earth, good-will to men!
And in despair I bowed my head            ;
"There is no peace on earth," I said      ;
"For hate is strong,
And mocks the song
Of peace on earth, good-will to men!"
Then pealed the bells more loud and deep:
"God is not dead, nor doth He sleep       ;
The Wrong shall fail,
The Right prevail,
With peace on earth, good-will to men."

This is the month, and this the happy morn,
Wherein the Son of Heaven’s eternal King,
Of wedded maid and Virgin Mother born,
Our great redemption from above did bring                  ;
For so the holy sages once did sing,
That he our deadly forfeit should release,
And with his Father work us a perpetual peace.
That glorious Form, that Light unsufferable,
And that far-beaming blaze of majesty,
Wherewith he wont at Heaven’s high council-table
To sit the midst of Trinal Unity,
He laid aside, and, here with us to be,
Forsook the Courts of everlasting Day,
And chose with us a darksome house of mortal clay.
Say, Heavenly Muse, shall not thy sacred vein
Afford a present to the Infant God?
Hast thou no verse, no hymn, or solemn strain,
To welcome him to this his new abode,
Now while the heaven, by the Sun’s team untrod,
Hath took no print of the approaching light,
And all the spangled host keep watch in squadrons bright?
See how from far upon the Eastern road
The star-led Wisards haste with odours sweet!
Oh! run                                                    ; prevent them with thy humble ode,
And lay it lowly at his blessèd feet                      ;
Have thou the honour first thy Lord to greet,
And join thy voice unto the Angel Quire,
From out his secret altar touched with hallowed fire.
It was the winter wild,
While the heaven-born child
All meanly wrapt in the rude manger lies                   ;
Nature, in awe to him,
Had doffed her gaudy trim,
With her great Master so to sympathize:
It was no season then for her
To wanton with the Sun, her lusty Paramour.
Only with speeches fair
She woos the gentle air
To hide her guilty front with innocent snow,
And on her naked shame,
Pollute with sinful blame,
The saintly veil of maiden white to throw                  ;
Confounded, that her Maker’s eyes
Should look so near upon her foul deformities.
But he, her fears to cease,
Sent down the meek-eyed Peace:
She, crowned with olive green, came softly sliding
Down through the turning sphere,
His ready Harbinger,
With turtle wing the amorous clouds dividing               ;
And, waving wide her myrtle wand,
She strikes a universal peace through sea and land.
No war, or battail’s sound,
Was heard the world around                                 ;
The idle spear and shield were high uphung                 ;
The hookèd chariot stood,
Unstained with hostile blood                               ;
The trumpet spake not to the armèd throng                 ;
And Kings sat still with awful eye,
As if they surely knew their sovran Lord was by.
But peaceful was the night
Wherein the Prince of Light
His reign of peace upon the earth began.
The winds, with wonder whist,
Smoothly the waters kissed,
Whispering new joys to the mild Ocean,
Who now hath quite forgot to rave,
While birds of calm sit brooding on the charmed wave.
The stars, with deep amaze,
Stand fixed in steadfast gaze,
Bending one way their precious influence,
And will not take their flight,
For all the morning light,
Or Lucifer that often warned them thence                   ;
But in their glimmering orbs did glow,
Until their Lord himself bespake, and bid them go.
And, though the shady gloom
Had given day her room,
The Sun himself withheld his wonted speed,
And hid his head of shame,
As his inferior flame
The new-enlightened world no more should need:
He saw a greater Sun appear
Than his bright Throne or burning axletree could bear.
The Shepherds on the lawn,
Or ere the point of dawn,
Sat simply chatting in a rustic row                        ;
Full little thought they than
That the mighty Pan
Was kindly come to live with them below:
Perhaps their loves, or else their sheep,
Was all that did their silly thoughts so busy keep.
When such music sweet
Their hearts and ears did greet
As never was by mortal finger strook,
Divinely-warbled voice
Answering the stringèd noise,
As all their souls in blissful rapture took:
The air, such pleasure loth to lose,
With thousand echoes still prolongs each heavenly close.
Nature, that heard such sound
Beneath the hollow round
Of Cynthia’s seat the airy Region thrilling,
Now was almost won
To think her part was done,
And that her reign had here its last fulfilling:
She knew such harmony alone
Could hold all Heaven and Earth in happier union.
At last surrounds their sight
A globe of circular light,
That with long beams the shamefaced Night arrayed          ;
The helmèd Cherubim
And sworded Seraphim
Are seen in glittering ranks with wings displayed,
Harping in loud and solemn quire,
With unexpressive notes, to Heaven’s newborn Heir.
Such music (as ’tis said)
Before was never made,
But when of old the Sons of Morning sung,
While the Creator great
His constellations set,
And the well-balanced World on hinges hung,
And cast the dark foundations deep,
And bid the weltering waves their oozy channel keep.
Ring out, ye crystal spheres!
Once bless our human ears,
If ye have power to touch our senses so                    ;
And let your silver chime
Move in melodious time                                     ;
And let the bass of heaven’s deep organ blow             ;
And with your ninefold harmony
Make up full consort of the angelic symphony.
For, if such holy song
Enwrap our fancy long,
Time will run back and fetch the Age of Gold               ;
And speckled Vanity
Will sicken soon and die,
And leprous Sin will melt from earthly mould               ;
And Hell itself will pass away,
And leave her dolorous mansions of the peering day.
Yes, Truth and Justice then
Will down return to men,
The enamelled arras of the rainbow wearing                 ;
And Mercy set between,
Throned in celestial sheen,
With radiant feet the tissued clouds down steering         ;
And Heaven, as at some festival,
Will open wide the gates of her high palace-hall.
But wisest Fate says No,
This must not yet be so                                    ;
The Babe lies yet in smiling infancy
That on the bitter cross
Must redeem our loss,
So both himself and us to glorify:
Yet first, to those chained in sleep,
The wakeful trump of doom must thunder through the deep,
With such a horrid clang
As on Mount Sinai rang,
While the red fire and smouldering clouds outbrake:
The aged Earth, aghast
With terror of that blast,
Shall from the surface to the centre shake,
When, at the world’s last sessiön,
The dreadful Judge in middle air shall spread his throne.
And then at last our bliss
Full and perfect is,
But now begins                                             ; for from this happy day
The Old Dragon under ground,
In straiter limits bound,
Not half so far casts his usurpèd sway,
And, wroth to see his Kingdom fail,
Swindges the scaly horror of his folded tail.
The Oracles are dumb                                       ;
No voice or hideous hum
Runs through the archèd roof in words deceiving.
Apollo from his shrine
Can no more divine,
Will hollow shriek the steep of Delphos leaving.
No nightly trance, or breathèd spell,
Inspires the pale-eyed Priest from the prophetic cell.
The lonely mountains o’er,
And the resounding shore,
A voice of weeping heard and loud lament                   ;
Edgèd with poplar pale,
From haunted spring, and dale
The parting Genius is with sighing sent                    ;
With flower-inwoven tresses torn
The Nymphs in twilight shade of tangled thickets mourn.
In consecrated earth,
And on the holy hearth,
The Lars and Lemures moan with midnight plaint             ;
In urns, and altars round,
A drear and dying sound
Affrights the Flamens at their service quaint              ;
And the chill marble seems to sweat,
While each peculiar power forgoes his wonted seat.
Peor and Baälim
Forsake their temples dim,
With that twice-battered god of Palestine                  ;
And moonèd Ashtaroth,
Heaven’s Queen and Mother both,
Now sits not girt with tapers’ holy shine:
The Libyc Hammon shrinks his horn                          ;
In vain the Tyrian maids their wounded Thammuz mourn.
And sullen Moloch, fled,
Hath left in shadows dread
His burning idol all of blackest hue                       ;
In vain with cymbals’ ring
They call the grisly king,
In dismal dance about the furnace blue                     ;
The brutish gods of Nile as fast,
Isis, and Orus, and the dog Anubis, haste.
Nor is Osiris seen
In Memphian grove or green,
Trampling the unshowered grass with lowings loud           ;
Nor can he be at rest
Within his sacred chest                                    ;
Nought but profoundest Hell can be his shroud              ;
In vain, with timbreled anthems dark,
The sable-stolèd Sorcerers bear his worshiped ark.
He feels from Juda’s land
The dreaded Infant’s hand                                ;
The rays of Bethlehem blind his dusky eyn                  ;
Nor all the gods beside
Longer dare abide,
Not Typhon huge ending in snaky twine:
Our Babe, to show his Godhead true,
Can in his swaddling bands control the damnèd crew.
So, when the Sun in bed,
Curtained with cloudy red,
Pillows his chin upon an orient wave,
The flocking shadows pale
Troop to the infernal jail,
Each fettered ghost slips to his several grave,
And the yellow-skirted Fays
Fly after the night-steeds, leaving their moon-loved maze.
But see! the Virgin blest
Hath laid her Babe to rest,
Time is our tedious song should here have ending:
Heaven’s youngest-teemèd star
Hath fixed her polished car,
Her sleeping Lord with handmaid lamp attending             ;
And all about the courtly stable
Bright-harnessed Angels sit in order serviceable.

Love came down at Christmas,
Love all lovely, Love Divine     ;
Love was born at Christmas,
Star and Angels gave the sign.
Worship we the Godhead,
Love Incarnate, Love Divine      ;
Worship we our Jesus:
But wherewith for sacred sign?
Love shall be our token,
Love be yours and love be mine,
Love to God and all men,
Love for plea and gift and sign.

The church is quaint, and carved, and olden      ;
The sunlight streams in wavelets golden,
This Christmas morn,
Through stained glass scenes from Bible stories,
On ancient knights whose sculptured glories
The aisle adorn.
The rays are shed in chastened splendour
On many a dead and gone defender
Of Church and Crown                              ;
On Lancelot, the brave Crusader,
And Guy, who slew the French invader,
And saved a town.
The manor lords in line unbroken
Rest here begirt with sign and token
Of ages past                                     ;
And dames and maidens, proud and stately,
Lie here with folded hands sedately,
And eyes shut fast.
Among their tombs the sunlight lingers
Then halts between the anthem singers,
And warriors grim.
For there, ’midst many a warlike relic,
Fair children sing the song angelic,
Christ’s birthday hymn.
In rev’rie wrapt, I pause and listen,
I watch the darting sunbeams glisten
On floor and wall                                ;
Then pass from dead to living graces,
And on the children’s happy faces
In splendour fall.
This song of peace—these gentle voices,
These glad young hearts that life rejoices,
My fancy thought,
Are dearer homage to the Master
Then all the Church’s foes’ disaster
These dead knights wrought.
Gone are the days of gloom and error,
Love’s sceptre breaks the rod of terror
In our fair isle.
And as the children sing His message
Of Peace on Earth the joyful presage,
They win God’s smile.

The sheets were frozen hard, and they cut the naked hand             ;
The decks were like a slide, where a seaman scarce could stand       ;
The wind was a nor'wester, blowing squally off the sea               ;
And cliffs and spouting breakers were the only things a-lee.
They heard the surf a-roaring before the break of day                ;
But 'twas only with the peep of light we saw how ill we lay.
We tumbled every hand on deck instanter, with a shout,
And we gave her the maintops'l, and stood by to go about.
All day we tacked and tacked between the South Head and the North    ;
All day we hauled the frozen sheets, and got no further forth        ;
All day as cold as charity, in bitter pain and dread,
For very life and nature we tacked from head to head.
We gave the South a wider berth, for there the tide-race roared      ;
But every tack we made we brought the North Head close aboard:
So's we saw the cliffs and houses, and the breakers running high,
And the coastguard in his garden, with his glass against his eye.
The frost was on the village roofs as white as ocean foam            ;
The good red fires were burning bright in every 'long-shore home     ;
The windows sparkled clear, and the chimneys volleyed out            ;
And I vow we sniffed the victuals as the vessel went about.
The bells upon the church were rung with a mighty jovial cheer       ;
For it's just that I should tell you how (of all days in the year)
This day of our adversity was blessed Christmas morn,
And the house above the coastguard's was the house where I was born.
O well I saw the pleasant room, the pleasant faces there,
My mother's silver spectacles, my father's silver hair               ;
And well I saw the firelight, like a flight of homely elves,
Go dancing round the china-plates that stand upon the shelves.
And well I knew the talk they had, the talk that was of me,
Of the shadow on the household and the son that went to sea          ;
And O the wicked fool I seemed, in every kind of way,
To be here and hauling frozen ropes on blessed Christmas Day.
They lit the high sea-light, and the dark began to fall.
"All hands to loose topgallant sails," I heard the captain call.
"By the Lord, she'll never stand it," our first mate Jackson, cried.
..."It's the one way or the other, Mr. Jackson," he replied.
She staggered to her bearings, but the sails were new and good,
And the ship smelt up to windward just as though she understood.
As the winter's day was ending, in the entry of the night,
We cleared the weary headland, and passed below the light.
And they heaved a mighty breath, every soul on board but me,
As they saw her nose again pointing handsome out to sea              ;
But all that I could think of, in the darkness and the cold,
Was just that I was leaving home and my folks were growing old.

Let me be merry now, ’t is time          ;
The season is at hand
For Christmas rhyme and Christmas chime,
Close up, and form the band.
The winter fires still burn as bright,
The lamp-light is as clear,
And since the dead are out of sight,
What hinders Christmas cheer?
Why think or speak of that abyss
In which lies all my Past?
High festival I need not miss,
While song and jest shall last.
We’ll clink and drink on Christmas Eve,
Our ghosts can feel no wrong               ;
They revelled ere they took their leave—
Hearken, my Soldier’s Song:
“The morning air doth coldly pass,
Comrades, to the saddle spring             ;
The night more bitter cold will bring
Ere dying—ere dying.
Sweetheart, come, the parting glass        ;
Glass and sabre, clash, clash, clash,
Ere dying—ere dying.
Stirrup-cup and stirrup-kiss—
Do you hope the foe we’ll miss,
Sweetheart, for this loving kiss,
Ere dying—ere dying?”
The feasts and revels of the year
Do ghosts remember long?
Even in memory come they here?
Listen, my Sailor’s song:
“O my hearties. yo heave ho!
Anchor’s up in Jolly Bay—
Hey!
Pipes and swipes, hob and nob—
Hey!
Mermaid Bess and Dolphin Meg,
Paddle over Jolly Bay—
Hey!
Tars, haul in for Christmas Day,
For round the ’varsal deep we go         ;
Never church, never bell,
For to tell
Of Christmas Day.
Yo heave ho, my hearties O!
Haul in, mates, here we lay—
Hey!”
His sword is rusting in its sheath,
His flag furled on the wall                ;
We’ll twine them with a holly-wreath,
With green leaves cover all.
So clink and drink when falls the eve      ;
But, comrades, hide from me
Their graves—I would not see them heave
Beside me, like the sea.
Let not my brothers come again,
As men dead in their prime                 ;
Then hold my hands, forget my pain,
And strike the Christmas chime.

"All hail!" the bells of Christmas rang,
"All hail!" the monks at Christmas sang,
The merry monks who kept with cheer
The gladdest day of all their year.
But still apart, unmoved thereat,
A pious elder brother sat
Silent, in his accustomed place,
With God's sweet peace upon his face.
"Why sitt'st thou thus?" his brethren cried,
"It is the blessed Christmas-tide            ;
The Christmas lights are all aglow,
The sacred lilies bud and blow.
"Above our heads the joy-bells ring,
Without the happy children sing,
And all God's creatures hail the morn
On which the holy Christ was born.
"Rejoice with us                             ; no more rebuke
Our gladness with thy quiet look."
The gray monk answered, "Keep, I pray,
Even as ye list, the Lord's birthday.
"Let heathen Yule fires flicker red
Where thronged refectory feasts are spread   ;
With mystery-play and masque and mime
And wait-songs speed the holy time!
"The blindest faith may haply save           ;
The Lord accepts the things we have          ;
And reverence, howsoe'er it strays,
May find at last the shining ways.
"They needs must grope who cannot see,
The blade before the ear must be             ;
As ye are feeling I have felt,
And where ye dwell I too have dwelt.
"But now, beyond the things of sense,
Beyond occasions and events,
I know, through God's exceeding grace,
Release from form and time and space.
"I listen, from no mortal tongue,
To hear the song the angels sung             ;
And wait within myself to know
The Christmas lilies bud and blow.
"The outward symbols disappear
From him whose inward sight is clear         ;
And small must be the choice of days
To him who fills them all with praise!
"Keep while you need it, brothers mine,
With honest seal your Christmas sign,
But judge not him who every morn
Feels in his heart the Lord Christ born!"

Locked away we’re like a Russian novel:
the hermit and the cowboy,
me stepping from the train.
A world of snow. Whose Great Coat a den
of baby foxes skinned and sewn together.
We’re a field of stars,
all the peasants’ sheep shorn in haste
made into a carpet placed beneath my feet,
the stationmaster’s son sent through the night to find us
this small room.
the foxes and the wolves.
the doves with their curved necks
waiting out the rain. the grass
starting to shake. [symbol] ’s the medals
on whose own bureau, the silver
glinting on whose horse’s bridle.
I said, Samovar sounds like a knight.
It’s just a fancy tea pot. [symbol] ’s my samovar,
the steam that makes my cheeks glow
so all the women talk. [symbol] ’s the snow
covering the wolf’s tracks,
the party of sleds sent out and not returning
gives me whose alphabet of notes
One by one each day. a thousand pages
read across the endless plains til [symbol] rides hard
beneath my window and helps me down
as the first flakes fall and I say,
You brought the first snow for me.

One winter I lived north, alone
and effortless, dreaming myself
into the past. Perhaps, I thought,
words could replenish privacy.
Outside, a red bicycle froze
into form, made the world falser
in its white austerity. So much
happens after harvest: the moon
performing novelty: slaughter,
snow. One hour the same
as the next, I held my hands
or held the snow. I was like sculpture,
forgetting or, perhaps, remembering
everything. Red wings in the snow,
red thoughts ablaze in the war
I was having with myself again.
Everything I hate about the world
I hate about myself, even now
writing as if this were a law
of nature. Say there were deer
fleet in the snow, walking out
the cold, and more gingkoes
bare in the beggar’s grove. Say
I was not the only one who saw
or heard the trees, their diffidence
greater than my noise. Perhaps
the future is a tiny flame
I’ll nick from a candle. First, I’m burning.
Then, numb. Why must every winter
grow colder, and more sure?

Announced by all the trumpets of the sky,
Arrives the snow, and, driving o'er the fields,
Seems nowhere to alight: the whited air
Hides hills and woods, the river, and the heaven,
And veils the farmhouse at the garden's end.
The sled and traveler stopped, the courier's feet
Delayed, all friends shut out, the housemates sit
Around the radiant fireplace, enclosed
In a tumultuous privacy of storm.
Come see the north wind's masonry.
Out of an unseen quarry evermore
Furnished with tile, the fierce artificer
Curves his white bastions with projected roof
Round every windward stake, or tree, or door.
Speeding, the myriad-handed, his wild work
So fanciful, so savage, nought cares he
For number or proportion. Mockingly,
On coop or kennel he hangs Parian wreaths         ;
A swan-like form invests the hidden thorn         ;
Fills up the farmer's lane from wall to wall,
Maugre the farmer's sighs                         ; and, at the gate,
A tapering turret overtops the work.
And when his hours are numbered, and the world
Is all his own, retiring, as he were not,
Leaves, when the sun appears, astonished Art
To mimic in slow structures, stone by stone,
Built in an age, the mad wind's night-work,
The frolic architecture of the snow.

Whose woods these are I think I know.
His house is in the village though    ;
He will not see me stopping here
To watch his woods fill up with snow.
My little horse must think it queer
To stop without a farmhouse near
Between the woods and frozen lake
The darkest evening of the year.
He gives his harness bells a shake
To ask if there is some mistake.
The only other sound's the sweep
Of easy wind and downy flake.
The woods are lovely, dark and deep.
But I have promises to keep,
And miles to go before I sleep,
And miles to go before I sleep.

One must have a mind of winter
To regard the frost and the boughs
Of the pine-trees crusted with snow                ;
And have been cold a long time
To behold the junipers shagged with ice,
The spruces rough in the distant glitter
Of the January sun                                 ; and not to think
Of any misery in the sound of the wind,
In the sound of a few leaves,
Which is the sound of the land
Full of the same wind
That is blowing in the same bare place
For the listener, who listens in the snow,
And, nothing himself, beholds
Nothing that is not there and the nothing that is.

Late lies the wintry sun a-bed,
A frosty, fiery sleepy-head            ;
Blinks but an hour or two              ; and then,
A blood-red orange, sets again.
Before the stars have left the skies,
At morning in the dark I rise          ;
And shivering in my nakedness,
By the cold candle, bathe and dress.
Close by the jolly fire I sit
To warm my frozen bones a bit          ;
Or with a reindeer-sled, explore
The colder countries round the door.
When to go out, my nurse doth wrap
Me in my comforter and cap             ;
The cold wind burns my face, and blows
Its frosty pepper up my nose.
Black are my steps on silver sod       ;
Thick blows my frosty breath abroad    ;
And tree and house, and hill and lake,
Are frosted like a wedding-cake.

When winter-time grows weary, I lift my eyes on high
And see the black trees standing, stripped clear against the sky  ;
They stand there very silent, with the cold flushed sky behind,
The little twigs flare beautiful and restful and kind             ;
Clear-cut and certain they rise, with summer past,
For all that trees can ever learn they know now, at last          ;
Slim and black and wonderful, with all unrest gone by,
The stripped tree-boughs comfort me, drawn clear against the sky.

All the complicated details
of the attiring and
the disattiring are completed!
A liquid moon
moves gently among
the long branches.
Thus having prepared their buds
against a sure winter
the wise trees
stand sleeping in the cold.

The snow is deep on the ground.
Always the light falls
Softly down on the hair of my belovèd.

How like a winter hath my absence been
From thee, the pleasure of the fleeting year!

In winter
all the singing is in
the tops of the trees

There are strange and mysterious sounds
When the winds of winter blow,
The long nights are crystal clear and cold,
And the fields and meadows are covered with snow.
The stars are frosty against the sky,
And the wind's whistle is shrill,
As the snow blows against the house
And drifts against the hill.
Yet, I like to see during the winter
A white carpet on the ground,
To plod aimlessly in the deep snow,
where deer tracks abound.
I like to feel the stillness
Of a crisp winter's night,
Watching a full moon rise over the horizon,
Exposing a winter wonderland beautiful and bright.

Nature breathes peace through the whisper of leaves,
the tenderness of a silent breeze,
the roar of thunder and even the rain’s sincerity.
Nature breathes harmony.

The sleigh is brimming
Reindeer well-rested and fed
Bells ringing... Away!

christmas advances
dashing reindeer jingle bells
fat jolly white bearded man

reindeer hooves on the roof --
my inner child reborn

Reindeer love the cold
Winter crispness and running
To warm their big hearts.

Santa’s Clydesdale brigade
helps him bring snow and presents
to the good, the bad and the ugly
Stand down reindeer!

The click-clack of reindeer hooves on the roof ;
A tight slide down the chimney                 ;
Santa’s delivery.

Rudolph Valentino could feel
A new woman in every reel
Santa's reindeer
Is not a steer!
A chafed nose is just a raw deal!...

If my grandma rode a reindeer,
Eventually would end up here   ;
Was hardy                      ;
Life of party                  ;
Bought us all a round of beer.

Santa got stuck up the chimney,
He’s put on so much weight this year,
Cos lockdown stopped his reindeer sprees,
So too much cake and beer!...

Reindeer lift-off to the sky          ;
A one night, round trip, world flight ;
Exhausted elves bedding down          ;
Jolly man’s night ride.

Soft and white they fall one by one,
Melting at first in the rays of the sun,
Thus the foundation for drifts is begun,
By small, white snow-flakes.
Mildly they float through the cold, frosty air,
Pure, unpolluted, lovely and fair,
Falling, the dirt of the street to share,
The pure, white snow-flakes.
Down to kiss the faces they meet,
Down to sit at the harsh world's feet,
To cover the earth with their snowy sheet,
The pure, innocent snow-flakes.
But lo! when they reach the broad highway,
No longer pure and white they stay              ;
But mingle with filth and mud and clay,
A pile of soiled snow-flakes.
And surely it needs watchfulness and care,
To keep our lives as pure and fair,
As the snow-flakes flying through the air,
The pure, white snow-flakes.

Whenever a snowflake leaves the sky,
It turns and turns to say "Good-by!
Good-by, dear clouds, so cool and gray!"
Then lightly travels on its way.
And when a snowflake finds a tree,
"Good-day! " it says "Good-day to thee!
Thou art so bare and lonely, dear,
I'll rest and call my comrades here."
But when a snowflake, brave and meek,
Lights on a rosy maiden's cheek,
It starts "How warm and soft the day!
'Tis summer! " and it melts away.

Only a tender little thing,
So velvet soft and white it is            ;
But March himself is not so strong,
With all the great gales that are his.
In vain his whistling storms he calls,
In vain the cohorts of his power
Ride down the sky on mighty blasts —
He cannot crush the little flower.
Its white spear parts the sod, the snows
Than that white spear less snowy are,
The rains roll off its crest like spray,
It lifts again its spotless star.
Blow, blow, dark March! To meet you here,
Thrust upward from the central gloom,
The stellar force of the old earth
Pulses to life in this slight bloom.

Beautiful snow! Beautiful snow!
Falling so lightly,
Daily and nightly,
Alike round the dwellings of lofty and low.
Horses are prancing,
Cheerily dancing,
Stirred by the spirit that comes from the snow.
Beautiful snow! Beautiful snow!
Up at the dawning,
In the cold morning,
Children exult, though the winds fiercely blow   ;
Hailing the snowflakes
Falling as day breaks
Joyful they welcome the beautiful snow.
Beautiful snow! Beautiful snow!
Childhood's quick glances
See the bright fancies
Decking the window-panes softly and slow         ;
Forest and city,
Figure so pretty,
Left by the magical fingers of snow.
Beautiful snow! Beautiful snow!
Atmosphere chilling.
Carriage-wheels stilling,
Warming the cold earth, and kindling the glow
Of Christian pity
For the great city
Of wretched creatures who starve 'mid the snow.
Beautiful snow! Beautiful snow!
Fierce winds blowing,
Thickly 'tis snowing                             ;
Night gathers round us how warm then the glow
Of the fire so bright,
On the cold winter night,
As we draw in the curtains to shut out the snow.
Beautiful snow! Beautiful snow!
Round the bright fireside,
In the long eventide,
Closely we gather though keen the winds blow     ;
Safely defended,
Kindly befriended,
Pity the homeless exposed to the cold, icy snow.

Snowflakes, the children love to see
When they fall they dance with glee
They try to catch them in their hands
They are delighted when each one lands.
But soon the snowflake disappears
Bringing some to tears.
But many more are falling
To answer the children's calling
Catching snowflakes goes on for hours
To a child, it is like picking flowers.
Just like the child, each snowflake
Is unique, that is no mistake.
So when you see the snowflakes fall
May happy memories may you will recall
Remember, like the snowflake, that each one of us
Is unique and that truly is a plus!

Oh! the snow, the beautiful snow,
Filling the sky and the earth below!
Over the housetops, over the street,
Over the heads of the people you meet          ;
Dancing,
Flirting,
Skimming along.
Beautiful snow! it can do no wrong.
Flying to kiss a fair lady's cheek,
Clinging to lips in a frolicsome freak,
Beautiful snow from the heaven above,
Pure as an angel, gentle as love!
Oh! the snow, the beautiful snow!
How the flakes gather and laugh as they go
Whirling about in their maddening fun!
It plays in its glee with every one,
Chasing,
Laughing,
Hurrying by                                    ;
It lights on the face and it sparkles the eye,
And even the dogs, with a bark and a bound,
Snap at the crystals that eddy around.
The town is alive and its heart in a glow,
To welcome the coming of beautiful snow!

Out of the clouds I came,
Down from a place so high
That I had no doubt, as I whirled about,
I was far above the sky.
I danced with the gay north wind
Who laughed as he flew by,
And threw me a kiss with his hand, like this,
And chuckled merrily.
I saw dear mother earth
By the light of the morning star              ;
And, sparkling bright, in the silent night,
The place where the fairies are.
Then quickly down and down.
With a million little friends,
I fell in a deep and snow white heap,
At the place where the rainbow ends.

How do we divide up
The Christmas ornaments?
When they are all
Celebrating our marriage?
When they are all
"The start of our yearly
Ornament collection,"
We thought would fill
An entire tree one year,
Years from now,
When our love would only grow.
How do we divide up
The Christmas ornaments?
When they are all
Symbols of unity?
When they are all
Carefully chosen,
Unlike our love,
Which was blind
And taken with no other consideration.
How do we divide up
The Christmas ornaments?
Who is supposed to hold onto
These memories?
Who is supposed to dispose of them
When their memories are irrelevant?
And when the small collection
Becomes too cumbersome to hold onto?
How do we divide up
The Christmas ornaments?

She peddles on the street
Gold and silver laces
At minimal costs.
Brilliant stones, rubies
Pile up her portable stall    ;
Neither for rent nor for sale
But in exchange of the love
More priceless
Than gemstones.
Retail consumption
Seems all mixed up.
I can't recall
If those clusters
Are real,
Not just ornaments
On sidewalk trenches.

Christmas candy canes
Hanging on the tree,
I think that Mommy hung them there
Especially for me.
I'm not allowed to take one until
Christmas Eve is here.
But I want one oh so badly,
'Cause they taste like Christmas cheer.
Maybe if I sneak one from the back
I won't get caught.
But that would be dishonest, and
That's not what Mommy taught.
So I'll have to wait for Christmas
Because Santa would surely see.
If I snitch an early candy cane,
He won't bring gifts for me.

Stripes of red on cane of white,
Oh, what a very pretty sight.
Nothing else is ever quite
As sweet as peppermint delight.

This candy cane wreath hangs on my door,
The entire Christmas season through.
I made it myself and hung it there,
Especially for you.
So when you walk up to my door,
Before you ring the bell.
Be sure to pluck one off the wreath,
And take some for your friends as well.
There's nothing sweeter in all the world,
Than spreading Christmas cheer.
So just be sure to tell your friends,
They can always find it here.
And I will glue a few more canes
To the bare spots on my wreath.
To make sure that there's plenty for all
Because the season is all too brief.
If only the feelings of Christmas
Could last all through the year.
Maybe if I never take down my wreath,
We'll never lose our holiday cheer.

See this wreath upon my door?
Take a cane, and I'll add more.
It's just my little gift to you,
To give you Christmas spirit too.

Staff of the shepherd to gather his flock in,
White for Christ's purity, which pours out from within,
Striped red for his sacrifice so precious and rare,
All symbolized in the candy cane that you hold there.

Turn that candy cane upside down,
And it becomes a J.
It symbolizes Jesus,
The true reason for Christmas day.

When we were kids ourselves,
We thought of Christmas time,
To be just for us,
Parents were not the prime.
But now that we are older,
We see that Christmas is great.
Not just for young children,
But for for us adults who love to celebrate.

When we were kids ourselves,
We thought of Christmas time,
To be just for us,
Parents were not the prime.
But now that we are older,
We see that Christmas is great.
Not just for young children,
But for for us adults who love to celebrate.

God bless the master of this house,
And all that are therein,
And to begin this Christmas tide
With mirth now let us sing.
For the Saviour of all people
Upon this time was born,
Who did from death deliver us,
When we were left forlorn.

Did Jesus know the price that he would pay
When he was born to us on that long ago Christmas day.
God loved us so much he sent His Son, you see
But many objected and could not agree.
Jesus still teaches us today, The Word such a treasure
And for those who follow The Word life is full of pleasures.
Still celebrated today this baby born so long ago
Causes peace, goodwill and still sets the world aglow.
Stop and think how many things do not survive
But yet today, The Word is still alive.
So during this Christmas season,
Take time and reflect on the reason.

Towards the end of November,
You start to feel it in the air.
Christmas time is coming,
As it does but once a year.
So many things to get done,
Presents, Christmas greetings and more.
This rushing season has begun,
Sometimes feeling like a chore.
But once things get done,
You can relax a little more.
Sit back and take in the season,
All the favourite things you adore.
Enjoy all the music
And the calmness that it brings.
Sing about Rudolph,
And the three wise kings.
Let the light aluminate,
Your house, yard and tree.
There is magic in the air,
I think we'd all agree.

The fairies and brownies on last Christmas-tide
Decided to open their hearts very wide,
And spend extra time, throughout the whole year,
In helping their grandfather - Santa Claus dear.
"Our fingers are nimble. We'll quickly make toys
Enough to supply all the girls and the boys,
And Santa may watch us to see if it's right,
So all will be ready before Christmas night."
Then bravely they all went to work with a will,
And soon all was quiet in workshop and mill             ;
For old Santa said, "Enough, and well done,
We've toys enough now to make all kinds of fun."
We thank you, old Santa, and your helpers, too,
For all of the many kind things that you do             ;
And should you need more help in making your toys,
Just call on your small friends, the girls and the boys

Santa Claus is coming - we shall welcome him with glee     ;
He'll hang a gift for every one upon the Christmas-tree    ;
He'll not forget a single child. How happy we shall be     ;
For Santa Claus is coming.
But we must remember all that we must do our part          ;
Christmas is the time of times, to give with all our heart
We must always share our joys with those who have no part,
When Santa Claus is coming.

Excitement and anticipation
For boys and girls
A time for dreams and whishes.
A time for families to come together
A time for friends to celebrate
A time for fun and good cheer
A time for caroling and music too.
A time to decorate the house
And trim the tree.
A time to wrap the presents
And fill the stockings.
But at Christmas time we
Should remember that first Christmas
Take the time to thank God above
For sending His son for those He loves.

On this happy Birthday
Of our Saviour King,
Come, dear little children,
Sweetly let us sing
Bethlehem's star is shining,
Holy is its ray,
To the world proclaiming
Christ was born to-day.
Wise men came to worship,
Wise men from a-far,
Guided by the glory
Of that holy star.
Now He reigns forever.
Loving you and me            ;
Joyful, let as praise Him
Round our Christmas tree.

Here is joy for every age -
Every generation                    ;
Prince and peasant, chief and sage,
Every tongue and nation,
Every rank and station,
Hath to-day salvation.
Alleluia!
When the world drew near its close,
Came our Lord and leader            ;
From the lily came the rose,
From the bush the cedar,
From the judge the pleader,
From the saint the feeder.
Alleluia!
God, that came on earth this morn,
In a manger lying,
Hallow'd birth by being born,
Vanquished death by dying,
Rallied back the flying,
Ended sin and sighing.
Alleluia!

Do you believe
Or do you feel deceived
I hate to tell you
But the famous Santa is for real
Trust me, he is a big deal!
Santa represents giving
and all things for which we give thanksgiving
His brings joy to many girls and boys
So you see he does bring more than just toys.
We should all practice the spirit of Mr Claus
But always stop and give a pause
For the blessings that Christmas brings
And be thankful for the simple things.
What does Christmas mean to me?
It's gold and glitter on a tree,
It's folks, all, working with a will,
The larder, where the goodies spill           ;
Turkey roasting in the pan                    ;
It's "peace on earth, goodwill to man";
It's loved ones coming through the door,
Exchanging gifts, and so much more.
It's following, still, that Christmas star,
And knowing the where e'er you are,
The "manger scene" is just as dear
Today, as it was, that first year.
That Christ was born on Christmas day,
A Babe to lead us all the way                 ;
Today He is that Christmas Star,
Our Guiding Light, that shines afar.
The angels heralded in His birth,
And mortal man knew not His worth             ;
They let Him in a manger lay,
And sheltered those with earthly pay          ;
But wisemen and the shepherds came,
To pay great homage to His name               ;
He gave His life that we might live,
So, let us, too, our homage give.
That is what Christmas means to me,
It's gold and glitter on the tree,
It's Christ suspended on the cross,
To save us from celestial loss.
Let's make a resolution dear,
To be a witness while we are here             ;
Let's put the Christ in Christmas now,
And in His presence humbly bow.

Sweetly chime, sweetly chime,
Happy bells of Christmas time     ;
Sweetly chime, sweetly chime,
Christ the Lord is born.
Christ is born, our Saviour dear,
Joyous words we love to hear      ;
Sweetly chime, sweetly chime,
Christ the Lord is born.
Sweetly chime, sweetly chime,
Happy bells of Christmas time     ;
Sweetly chime, sweetly chime,
Glory be to God.
Let us carol sweetly then,
Peace on earth, good will to men  ;
Sweetly chime, sweetly chime,
Christ the Lord is born.

If I could wish a wish for you,
it would be for peace, faith, and happiness
not only at Christmas,
but for the whole year through!
I wish that there always be food on your table.
That you always give to those less fortunate.
May you always take time to share,
and thank those who have blessed you.
I wish for time, so you may reflect
on the blessings that you have,
and that you express your love
to those who are dear to you.
May you never feel lonely,
because there are those who care.
That you realize: you are special,
you are unique, you make a difference,
not only at Christmas, but all year!
I wish for your thoughts to be positive ones,
that you never quit, that you never give up,
and that you continue to learn.
I wish for the love, and peace of God,
to be yours always.

Faith, hope and charity
May we always have these
Not just at Christmas time
But all the year throughout.
We tend to have more faith
More hope and charity
During the season
But can we keep it always
May you always have
Something to hope for
Faith in something bigger than you
And, dreams that come true.
And may you always
Share with others
Your blessings as a result
Of your hopes, faith, and dreams.

Their eyes were dancing, filled with joy
Just looking at all those toys.
The children were visiting a store that day
In hopes to see Santa come their way.
They sat on his lap
They said not a word.
But his jolly old self
Well he made them relax.
The children they told him
Their most wanted wish
Santa smiled at them
And gave them a kiss
When they woke Christmas morn
They raced to the tree
And you should have heard them shout with glee.
Santa made wishes come true you see!

From out Cologne there came three kings
To worship Jesus Christ, their King.
To Him they sought fine herbs they brought,
And many a beauteous golden thing           ;
They brought their gifts to Bethlehem town,
And in that manger set them down.
Then spake the first king, and he said:
"O Child, most heavenly, bright, and fair!
I bring this crown to Bethlehem town
For Thee, and only Thee, to wear            ;
So give a heavenly crown to me
When I shall come at last to Thee!"
The second, then. "I bring Thee here
This royal robe, O Child!" he cried         ;
"Of silk 'tis spun, and such an one
There is not in the world beside            ;
So in the day of doom requite
Me with a heavenly robe of white!"
The third king gave his gift, and quoth:
"Spikenard and myrrh to Thee I bring,
And with these twain would I most fain
Anoint the body of my King                  ;
So may their incense sometime rise
To plead for me in yonder skies!"
Thus spake the three kings of Cologne,
That gave their gifts, and went their way   ;
And now kneel I in prayer hard by
The cradle of the Child to-day              ;
Nor crown, nor robe, nor spice I bring
As offering unto Christ, my King.
Yet have I brought a gift the Child
May not despise, however small              ;
For here I lay my heart to-day,
And it is full of love to all.
Take Thou the poor but loyal thing,
My only tribute, Christ, my King!

"God bless us every one!" prayed Tiny Tim,
Crippled, and dwarfed of body, yet so tall
Of soul, we tiptoe earth to look on him,
High towering over all.
He loved the loveless world, nor dreamed, indeed,
That it, at best, could give to him, the while,
But pitying glances, when his only need
Was but a cheery smile.
And thus he prayed, "God bless us every one!"
Enfolding all the creeds within the span
Of his child-heart                                 ; and so, despising none,
Was nearer saint than man.
I like to fancy God, in Paradise,
Lifting a finger o'er the rhythmic swing
Of chiming harp and song, with eager eyes
Turned earthward, listening--
The Anthem stilled--the angels leaning there
Above the golden walls--the morning sun
Of Christmas bursting flower-like with the prayer,
"God bless us Every One!"

This Christmas, mend a quarrel.
Seek out a forgotten friend.
Dismiss suspicion, and replace it with trust.
Write a love letter. Share some treasure.
Give a soft answer. Encourage youth.
Manifest your loyalty in word and deed.
Keep a promise. Find the time.
Forgo a grudge. Forgive an enemy.
Listen. Apologize if you were wrong. Try to understand.
Flout envy. Examine your demands on others.
Think first of someone else. Appreciate.
Be kind                                                             ; be gentle. Laugh a little. Laugh a little more.
Deserve confidence. Take up arms against malice.
Decry complacency. Express your gratitude.
Go to church. Welcome a stranger.
Gladden the heart of a child.
Take pleasure in the beauty and wonder of the earth.
Speak your love. Speak it again. Speak it still once again.
Christmas is celebration, and there is no celebration
that compares with the realization of its true meaning -
with the sudden stirring of the heart that has extended
itself toward the core of life. Then, only then,
is it possible to grasp the significance of the first Christmas -
to savor in the inward ear the wild, sweet music of the angel choir ;
to envision the star-struck sky, and glimpse,
behind the eyelids the ray of light that fell athwart
a darkened path and changed the world.

Peace, love and happiness this season
Cheer spread all around you and yours' for this reason
For your heart is pure and kind
And compassion rests on your mind
Not as pure as snow
But not as cold as ice
Just cause you are human we know
And as good as they come you are nice
So my prayer for you this moment and forever
Boxed up as gifts but invisible like words
Is that this smile on your face shall not fade ever
For He shall supply all your needs, for He is God
So smile on, smile on
Take in the better around you
The gift of life and the clothes you have on
The meal on your table and the roof over your head too
Smile on, smile on
Share what you have
Christmas brings peace
Be oh so glad!

Born in a manger
Was that of a Savior
How little did they know
How heaven and earth were a glow.
This baby he did grow
And lived to thirty-three you know
But the influence of His presence
Gave us all the best present.
He taught about love
About the kingdom above
For our sins He did die
A gift we cannot repay.
Lord Jesus we thank you
Your presence is true
Our love for you is great
And at Christmas we celebrate.

A time for joy
For the girls and boys
Xmas brings hope
Of all good things.
Decorations and trees
Turn the lights on please
Good friends and family too
Presents and surprises for you.
A day to reflect
A day of respect
For all you have been blessed
Let your joy be expressed.
May this Christmas bring
All special things
May you find happiness and joy
May you even receive a toy.

If only every day
Held the spirit of Christmas day
To capture that feeling always
Year round would be the best way
If only every day
We would be so kind
To our fellow man
Year round would be the best way.
If only every day
We share and give
So that others may happily live
Year round would be the best way.
If only every day
We expressed our love
And thanked God above
Year round would be the best way.

When Santa Claus doth visit me
With richly laden pack of toys,
And tumbles down my chim-i-ney
To scatter 'round his Christmas joys,
I trust that he will bring the kind
That can be shared, for it is true
Past peradventure to my mind
That joy is sweeter shared by two
I never cared for solitaire.
I do not pine for lonely things.
I love the pleasure I can share
Because of all the fun it brings.
A selfish pleasure loses zest
With none to share it with you by,
And shrinks the longer 'tis possest,
While joys divided multiply.

At Christmas time the fields are white,
And hill and valley all bedight
With snowy splendor, while on high
The black crows sail athwart the sky,
Mourning for summer days gone by
At Christmas time.
At Christmas time the air is chill,
And frozen lies the babbling rill:
While sobbingly the trees make moan
For leafy greenness once their own,
For blossoms dead and birdlings flown
At Christmas time.
At Christmas time we deck the hall
With holly branches brave and tall,
With sturdy pine and hemlock bright,
And in the Yule-log's dancing light
We tell old tales of field and fight
At Christmas time.
At Christmas time we pile the board
With flesh and fruit and vintage stored,
And mid the laughter and the glow
We tred a measure soft and slow,
And kiss beneath the mistletoe
At Christmas time.
O God and Father of us all,
List to Thy lowliest creature's call:
Give of Thy joy to high and low,
Comforting the sorrowing in their woe    ;
Make wars to cease and love to grow
At Christmas time.
Let not one heart be sad to-day          ;
May every child be glad and gay:
Bless Thou Thy children great and small,
In lowly hut or castle hall,
And may each soul keep festival
At Christmas time.

There is something each of us knows quite well,
We do them every year.
Traditions passed down throughout the years,
When holidays are finally here.
Christmas time especially,
We pull out our favourite things.
We can hardly wait until our kids are old enough,
To participate in these things.
And once we're able to pass them along,
We can only hope they'll do the same.
Traditions are very important to us,
Just like passing on our surname!
But just like us, our children do to,
Love traditions and all that they hold.
They want nothing more than to pass them along,
Traditions will always be told.

Give me a light to shine on city streets,
Give me a word to make men live again,
Give me a note of love where hate has been
Give me the grace to be a child again.
Give me Thy Christmas Hope.
Grant me a shrine for Mary's Child,
Grant me the vision of the Father's Love,
Grant me the gentle shepherd's heart,
Grant me humility and love.
Grant me Thy Christmas Grace.
Speak through my lips for all to hear,
Speak from my heart of the Savior's love
Speak from the deep, repentant depths,
Speak for the fear-filled heart and sore.
Speak of the Peace of God.
Sing in the ranks of heavenly choirs,
Sing in the churches of our reigning Lord,
Sing in the tongues of every land,
Sing in the hearts of all redeemed.
Sing of the Son of God.
Bring in the shepherds from the fields,
Bring in the poor and needy of the earth,
Bring in the wise men of all time,
Bring in the gifts of wisdom, truth, and love.
Bring Him your inmost heart.
Stir up the songs of Christ and hymns of hope,
Stir up thy soul with penitence and grace,
Stir up thy heart to answer love with love,
Stir up all powers in welcome to thy King.
Stir up pure Christmas faith.

Christmas is a magical time,
For young and also old.
The season brings so much to see,
And so many stories are told.
The biggest story of the holiday,
Is of the Christmas star.
Sitting out on Christmas Eve,
We are reminded who we are.
Christmas is about one thing.
Not presents or of toys.
Christmas is of joy and peace,
And happy family noise.
Christmas is the spirit of happiness,
And of being with those you love.
It is a time to give thanks and show your love,
And in times of need, look up above.
Christmas became because of one,
And we have him to thank.
Next time you see that star shine bright,
Say a prayer for Jesus sake.
The Christmas star is a presence,
One in which is a thrill.
Although it seems impossible now,
He stands among us still.

High in the heavens a single star,
Of pure, imperishable light              ;
Out on the desert strange and far
Dim riders riding through the night:
Above a hilltop sudden song
Like silver trumpets down the sky--
And all to welcome One so young
He scarce could lift a cry!
Stars rise and set, that star shines on:
Songs fail, but still that music beats
Through all the ages come and gone,
In lane and field and city streets.
And we who catch the Christmas gleam,
Watching with children on the hill,
We know, we know it is no dream -
He stands among us still!

Christmas is more than just presents,
It's love and harmony.
Together with friends and family,
Laughing and being funny.
We sing so many carols,
That we can't forget the tunes.
Christmas is so very exciting,
Especially in the afternoons.
Mornings are about Santa,
Exchanging our lovely gifts.
But afternoons are about loving,
All those who we feel fit.

A time of blessings and happiness.
A time of caroling and songs.
A time for giving thanks.
A time for presents for all.
A time of good cheer and friendship.
A time of love for all.
A time for helping others.
But most of all Christmas is a time to stop and thank God for all that we have.

Years of Christmas time
My very first memory of Christmas time,
Was back when I was quite young.
Putting up our Christmas tree,
My family I was among.
Then later in my early teens,
My memory is quite the same.
Decorating the Christmas tree,
Closeness a family we came.
As a young adult things did change,
I would put my own tree up.
But when the day came, things felt the same,
As together we always wound up.
Now the years passed with kids of my own,
I find myself thinking back.
Traditions stay strong as I pass them along,
Together we always comeback.

Years of Christmas time
My very first memory of Christmas time,
Was back when I was quite young.
Putting up our Christmas tree,
My family I was among.

Then later in my early teens,
My memory is quite the same.
Decorating the Christmas tree,
Closeness a family we came.
As a young adult things did change,
I would put my own tree up.
But when the day came, things felt the same,
As together we always wound up.
Now the years passed with kids of my own,
I find myself thinking back.
Traditions stay strong as I pass them along,
Together we always comeback.

Christmas is a time of giving,
And a time to share,
All the love you harbor close,
And to share all your prayers
It's time to bring those people,
Whom you may not see that much.
Bring them all together,
And they will all feel touched.
It's also time to give,
To all those that are in need.
This should be done all year around,
But this time of year is especially a need.
And when you stop and think,
Of what Christmas means to you.
A sense of joy and happiness,
Is the feelings that will come to you.
Christmas is a warmth,
We all should feel and take note.
How lucky are we all,
To have this feeling in our throat.
So say a little prayer,
To thank the man upstairs.
For giving us a wonderful holiday,
That brings such happy tears.

Gifts that are needed
In the spirit of helping others have a
Very Merry Christmas that can let
Icicles can melt when you help
Noel a time to share when
Giving to others will come back to you

Christmas time bring lots of things,
To do that is quite fun.
My favourite thing at Christmas time,
Is presents, and that's just one.
All the houses on my block,
Are lit from head to toe.
Reds and greens and even blues,
Light the streets with a twinkling glow.
Then there is Santa Claus,
He is something great.
I wait for him on Christmas Eve,
And for Rudolph and reindeers eight.
I also watch for Santa Claus,
At the Christmas parade each year.
He is always the last float of the night,
Never without Rudolph and his eight reindeer.
And one more thing I love of this time,
And I hope for it each year.
I hope for snow to fall from the sky,
As it always brings Christmas cheer.
And last but not least there is one more
Thing that Christmas brings
That is the blessing from God of His Son, He sent for all.

The earth has grown old with its burden of care,
But at Christmas it always is young,
The heart of the jewel burns lustrous and fair,
And its soul, full of music, bursts forth on the air,
When the song of the angels is sung.
It is coming, Old Earth, it is coming tonight!
On the snowflakes which cover thy sod
The feet of the Christ Child fall gentle and white,
And the voice of the Christ Child tells out with delight,
That mankind are the children of God.
On the sad and the lonely, the wretched and poor,
The voice of the Christ Child shall fall                  ;
And to every blind wanderer open the door
Of hope that he dared not to dream of before,
With a sunshine of welcome for all.

All the house was asleep,
And the fire burning low,
When, from far up the chimney,
Came down a "Ho! ho!"
And a little, round man,
With a terrible scratching,
Dropped into the room
With a wink that was catching.
Yes, down he came, bumping,
And thumping, and jumping,
And picking himself up without sign
of a bruise!
"Ho! ho!" he kept on,
As if bursting with cheer.
"Good children, gay children,
Glad children, see here!
I have brought you fine dolls,
And gay trumpets, and rings,
Noah's arks, and bright skates,
And a host of good things!
I have brought a whole sackful,
A packful, a hackful!
Come hither, come hither, come hither
and choose!
"Ho! ho! What is this?
Why, they all are asleep!
But their stockings are up,
And my presents will keep!
So, in with the candies,
The books, and the toys                           ;
All the goodies I have
For the good girls and boys.
I'll ram them, and jam them,
And slam them, and cram them                      ;
All the stockings will hold while the
tired youngsters snooze."
All the while his round shoulders
Kept ducking and ducking                          ;
And his little, fat fingers
Kept tucking and tucking                          ;
Until every stocking
Bulged out, on the wall,
As if it were bursting,
And ready to fall.
And then, all at once,
With a whisk and a whistle,
And twisting himself
Like a tough bit of gristle,
He bounced up again,
Like the down of a thistle,
And nothing was left but the prints of his shoes.

How can you take Christ out of Christmas
What meaning would there be
For truly it is Jesus who is the reason
for this special season you see.
Those who want to say happy holiday
should be reminded this I say,
you can find Holy there
and that should be our prayer.
And further still you say, Santa Claus,
well, he was a Christian leader too
by the name of Saint Nicholas
who helped others all year through.
So as hard as you may try
There is no reason why
we would have Christmas time
without Jesus in our mind.

Let Christmas be the time of year that you spend with people dear.
A time for joy for all girls and boys.
A time to sing and hear the church bells ring.
A time to share and show you care.
A time to trim the tree and dance with glee.
A time to feast and share with the least.
A time for gifts and walking in snowdrifts.
Let Christmas be the time to remember Jesus paid the debt.
Take the time to praise God and stand in awe!

Here comes the Christmas angel,
So gentle and so calm                    ;
As softly as the falling flakes
He comes with flute and psalm.
All in a cloud of glory,
As once upon the plain
To shepherd-boys in Jewry,
He brings good news again.
He is the young folks' Christmas         ;
He makes their eyes grow bright
With words of hope and tender thought,
And visions of delight.
Hail to the Christmas angel!
All peace on earth he brings             ;
He gathers all the youths and maids
Beneath his shining wings.
Here comes the little Christ-child,
All innocence and joy,
And bearing gifts in either hand
For every girl and boy.
He tells the tender story
About the Holy Maid,
And Jesus in the manger
Before the oxen laid.
Like any little winter bird
He sings his sweetest song,
Till all the cherubs in the sky
To hear his carol throng.
He is the children's Christmas           ;
They come without a call,
To gather round the gracious Child,
Who bringeth joy to all.
But who shall bring their Christmas
Who wrestle still with life?
Not grandsires, youths, or little folks,
But they who wage the strife
The fathers and the mothers
Who fight for homes and bread,
Who watch and ward the living,
And bury all the dead?
Ah! by their side at Christmas-tide
The Lord of Christmas stands:
He smooths the furrows from their brow
With strong and tender hands.
"I take my Christmas gift," He saith,
"From thee, tired soul, and he
Who giveth to My little ones
Gives also unto Me."

A manger-cradled child, his mother near,
And one they call his father standing by,
Shepherd and Magi, with the gifts they bear,
An angel chorus rolling through the sky-
Once more the sacred mystery we scan,
And wonder if the Christ be God's best gift to man.
Pale, patient Pleader, for the poor and those
Whose hearts are homes of sorrow and of pain,
Thy voice is as a balm for all their woes             ;
Through twenty centuries it calleth plain
As when it breathed the invitation blest-
"Ye weary, come to Me, and I will give you rest."
Reason may seek to ruin, science scorn,
But that great love of Thine hath made us wise
In wisdom not of understanding born,
That bids us turn to Thee with longing eyes
And outstretched hands. We know that Thou art He.
Nor do we seek a sign as did the Pharisee.
Sweet festival that bringeth back once more
The golden dreams of childhood, let us turn
Like little children to the Christmas lore
That once did hold us spellbound, till we learn
Again the lesson of Thy love                          ; for we
Must be like children, Lord, ere we can come to Thee.

Good news from heaven the angels bring,
Glad tidings to the earth they sing:
To us this day a child is given,
To crown us with the joy of heaven.
This is the Christ, our God and Lord,
Who in all need shall aid afford:
He will Himself our Saviour be,
From sin and sorrow set us free.
To us that blessedness He brings,
Which from the Father's bounty springs:
That in the heavenly realm we may
With Him enjoy eternal day.
All hail, Thou noble Guest, this morn,
Whose love did not the sinner scorn!
In my distress Thou cam'st to me:
What thanks shall I return to Thee?
Were earth a thousand times as fair,
Beset with gold and jewels rare,
She yet were far too poor to be
A narrow cradle, Lord, for Thee.
Ah, dearest Jesus, Holy Child!
Make Thee a bed, soft, undefiled,
Within my heart, that it may be
A quiet chamber kept for Thee.
Praise God upon His heavenly throne,
Who gave to us His only Son:
For this His hosts, on joyful wing,
A blest New Year of mercy sing.

Religious Christmas Poems
Enjoy our collection of religious Christmas poems. Verses and poems that will remind you of the reasons we celebrate Christmas.

Christmas is one of the most religious holidays celebrated in the church. Recognizing and honoring the birth of our Saviour. Let these religious poems remind you of the reasons we celebrate Christmas.

Inspiring Religious Christmas Poems

A Christmas Carol For Children
Poet: Martin Luther

Good news from heaven the angels bring,
Glad tidings to the earth they sing:
To us this day a child is given,
To crown us with the joy of heaven.

This is the Christ, our God and Lord,
Who in all need shall aid afford:
He will Himself our Saviour be,
From sin and sorrow set us free.

To us that blessedness He brings,
Which from the Father's bounty springs:
That in the heavenly realm we may
With Him enjoy eternal day.

All hail, Thou noble Guest, this morn,
Whose love did not the sinner scorn!
In my distress Thou cam'st to me:
What thanks shall I return to Thee?

Were earth a thousand times as fair,
Beset with gold and jewels rare,
She yet were far too poor to be
A narrow cradle, Lord, for Thee.

Ah, dearest Jesus, Holy Child!
Make Thee a bed, soft, undefiled,
Within my heart, that it may be
A quiet chamber kept for Thee.

Praise God upon His heavenly throne,
Who gave to us His only Son:
For this His hosts, on joyful wing,
A blest New Year of mercy sing.

A Message For Joseph
Poet: Greta Zwaan, © 2004

The gossip lines have done their work                 ; the news is spread abroad;
The village is alive with talk - who dishounored God?
Joseph was an honourable man, his ancestry well known ;
Kind and gentle in his ways, as the years had shown.

Then he met a lovely maid, a gentle little miss,
He was mesmerized by her, now life was truly bliss.
They made their plans to wed one day and be forever one,
For Joseph, the fine carpenter, a new life had begun.

Preparations soon were made, such joy filled his heart.
Happiness could know no bounds, in this brand new start.
Mary, what a tender name, loving, gentle pure            ;
Holding to the truth of God, in His love secure.

Together they would serve their God, adhere to His commands,
Gathering council at His throne, as they made their plans.
Then one day the word got out, Mary was with child!
Joseph's heart was torn in two - his betrothed, defiled?
How could Mary treat him so when his love was true,
How could she degrade their dreams? Now what could he do?

He supposed the best would be to send her far away,
He couldn't bear to part with her, but, what will people say?
Turmoil, grief, astonishment, would not let him rest          ;
How could Mary treat him thus, when they'd been so blessed?

In the night an angel came - was it but a dream?
No, the message God sent forth, they were still a team.
"Joseph, go ahead and wed, God brought this about             ;
Mary has been true to you, you mustn't ever doubt.
Yes, it's true, she is with child, but He's the promised One,
All the years that man has sought, now He's here! God's Son!

Mary is the one God chose to fulfill His plan,
And, Joseph, you stand by her side, help her all you can.
Don't let others cause you doubt, Mary has been blessed,
Be a father to this Child, and put your mind at rest."

When Joseph wakened, fear was gone, joy was there instead,
They'd raise this Child with love; he'd heard what God had said!
Folks could not destroy their trust, nor their life together     ;
Love would stand the test of time in calm or stormy weather.

I am so glad He was not born
In some rich palace bed.
I am so glad to know it was
A lowly place, instead,
A place where soft-eyed cows and sheep
Were sheltered and fed.
For to the country-born of earth
A stable will ever be
A wholesome place, where night comes down
With its tranquility,
A place of heart's ease and content
For all who choose to see.
And so I like to think of Him,
First opening His eyes
In that good elemental place
Beneath the friendly skies.
That the men of fields could find Him there,
As well as the great and wise.

Cometh the yearly Feast, the wonderous Holy Night,
Worthy of sacred hymn and solemn rite.
No harbingers of joy the olden message sing,
Nor gifts of Peace to waiting mortals bring.
Alone the thronging hosts of evil men I hear,
And see the anxious brow and falling tear.
The Age will bear no yoke                               ; forgets the God above,
Nor duteous payment yields to parents' love.
Suspicious Discord rends the peaceful State in twain,
And busy Murder follows in her train.
Gone are the loyal faith, the rights revered of old--
Reigns but a blind and cruel lust of Gold!
O come, Thou holy Child! Pity the fallen world,
Lest it should perish, into darkness hurled.
Out of the laboring Night grant it a newer birth,
And a New Age to bloom o'er all the earth.
Circle with splendors old the brow of Faith divine      ;
Let her full glory on the nations shine.
Nerve her to battlings new                              ; palsy her foes with dread;
Place the victorious laurel on her head.
Be Error's mist dissolved, and ancient feuds repressed,
Till Earth at last find quietude and rest.
O gentle Peace, return nor evermore depart              ;
And link us hand in hand and heart to heart!

I wish that dear old Santa
Would take me for a ride       ;
I'd like to drive his reindeer
And sit by Santa's side.
I'd like to help old Santa
Find all the girls and boys,
So each one might be happy
With Christmas books and toys.
Jingle, jingle, jingle,
Christmas toys we'd bring      ;
Jingle, jingle, jingle,
How the bells would ring!

You better watch out,
you better not cry
Better not pout, I'm telling you why
Santa Claus is coming to town
Haven Gillespie

A pound of fun
And a pound of joy
Make a nice present
For a girl or boy.
A cup of goodness
And a cup of love
Really are gifts
From heaven above.
A pinch of holly
And a pinch of pine -
Now, we know
It's Christmas time

Chirstmas seems like a long way a way
But soon it will be Christmas day
A day for celebrating and playing with toys
So while you wait be a good little boy!

God chose Mary to hear the Baby,
For she had no sin.
When she and Joseph got to Bethlehem,
There was no room at the inn.
Christ was born in a stable
And lay on some hay.
He had a ring above His head
A bright array.
Some shepherds - on that long-ago date -
Were watching their flocks by night
When out of the heavens came an angel
And a glorious light.
The angel told them where
The newborn King was laid.
So the shepherds hurried to the spot
And there their homage paid.
Three Wise Men searched the sky one night
And came across a brand-new star.
"A King!" they said,
So they started from afar.
Myrrh, frankincense, and gold
Were the gifts beside Him laid.
They bowed their heads,
And they prayed

Oh, Christmas is a time of year
I love with all my heart             ;
And best of all, I think I like
The getting-ready part!
We practice carols weeks ahead
And mail some things away
I get to help sign Christmas cards
And make the house look gay
We plan a program for our church
And make some gifts at school,
The postman brings us packages -
We hide them                         ; that's our rule.
We trim the Christmas tree, we cook,
We wrap for all we're worth          ;
But best of all, we read once more
Of baby Jesus'birth.

Oh, Christmas is a time of year
I love with all my heart             ;
And best of all, I think I like
The getting-ready part!
We practice carols weeks ahead
And mail some things away
I get to help sign Christmas cards
And make the house look gay
We plan a program for our church
And make some gifts at school,
The postman brings us packages -
We hide them                         ; that's our rule.
We trim the Christmas tree, we cook,
We wrap for all we're worth          ;
But best of all, we read once more
Of baby Jesus'birth.

His eyes- how they twinkled!
His dimples, how merry!
His cheeks were like roses,
his nose like a cherry!

Christmas is for mistletoe,
Evergreens, and holly           ;
Christmas is for Santa Claus,
Red and fat and jolly.
Christmas is for hearts to love
And voices to sing.
For on that day in Bethlehem
Was born the Christ, the King

We've the loveliest Christmas tree this year ;
It's on the lawn, but very near.
After dark when I went to see
The shining beauty of our tree,
There under branches deep and green
Was the sweetest sight I've ever seen!
By a bulb that glowed like a red, red rose,
A chickadee warmed his chilly toes,
Then fluffed his feathers and hid his head
And went to sleep in his nice, warm bed.
When I awake late in the night
And saw the spruce tree still alight,
I snuggled down, happy because I knew
The chickadee had a warm place too

Whenever you give someone a present or sing a holiday song,
you're helping Santa Claus.
To me, that's what Christmas is all about.

You are counting down the days
Making wishes for many toys
Many times you heard the phrase
Patience, my little girls and boys.
Santa is watching just to see
If you've been good or bad
I know you will be full of glee
A good kid you are - for that I'm glad.
The tree is up and the lights are on
The stockings all hung in a row
The cookies you baked will be gone
When Santa's reindeer land on the snow.
Sweet dreams to you, now go to sleep in your bed
And if you happen to awake
You may see the tracks of the sled
But oh, not a sound you will make.
You must wait for Santa to leave
The house will be quiet and still
Before you sneak down to the tree
But the wait is all part of the thrill.

Be happy and of good cheer for this is a great time of year
For laughing, loving, and caring and most of all sharing.

Are you going home for Christmas? Have you written you'll be there?
Going home to kiss the mother and to show her that you care?
Going home to greet the father in a way to make him glad?
If you're not I hope there'll never come a time you'll wish you had.
Just sit down and write a letter -- it will make their heart strings hum
With a tune of perfect gladness -- if you'll tell them that you'll come.

May the best gifts of Christmas be yours:
The gift of love.
The gift of hope.
The gift of joy.
The gift of peace.
The gift of happiness.
The gift of Jesus!

Over 2,000 years ago
The world was set aglow
With the birth of a little one
Who was God's son.
A gift from our Lord
One whom we adore.
We only have to believe
and then we receive.

I am sending you this Christmas jingle
Hoping that you are found by Chris Cringle.
May your holiday be merry and bright
And, may Jesus fill your home with light.

Christmas is a happy time          ;
People sing, and glad bells chime.
Songs are different, every one     ;
And everybody who sings has fun.

Christmas time is oh so near
Children so excited you can hear them cheer
Enthusiasm and excitement fill the air
And people show love in how they care.
Take the time to enjoy the season
And be thankful for the reason.

At Christmas
A man is at his finest towards the finish of the year                  ;
He is almost what he should be when the Christmas seasons here         ;
Then he's thinking more of others than he's thought the months before,
And the laughter of his children is a joy worth toiling for.
He is less a selfish creature than at any other time                   ;
When the Christmas spirit rules him he comes close to the sublime.

Somehow, not only for Christmas,
But all the long year through,
The joy that you give to others,
Is the joy that comes back to you.
And the more you spend in blessing,
The poor and lonely and sad,
The more of your heart's possessing,
Returns to you glad.

Christmas brings a world peace
For all to wonder and fighting does cease.
A miracle it seems, impossible to achieve
But nothing is impossible for those who believe

The sun's glory lies on the mountain
Like the glow of a golden dream,
Or the flush on a slumbering fountain
That wakes to dawn's roseate beam.
So the year's day dies in a glory,
And dying, like sunrays unfurled,
Casts the peace and love of Christ's story
Over the heart of the world.

Light looked down and beheld Darkness.
"Thither will I go," said Light.
Peace looked down and beheld War.
"Thither will I go," said Peace.
Love looked down and beheld Hatred.
"Thither will I go," said Love.
So came Light and shone.
So came Peace and gave rest.
So came Love and brought Life.

The season of giving always prevails,
And lifts my spirit high.
I wish this season would stay all year
And the love it shows never disappear

The Christmas trees shining and so bright
Colors dancing from its bows
All aglow with many lights
Children excited when they see it so.

People are as busy as bees,
Carrying home their Christmas trees,
Putting on their pretty lights
And decorations very bright.

There are presents under the Christmas tree,
My kids wonder when they came.
Must have been last night while you slept,
From Santa Claus I claim.

By using the light of Christmas
to guide us through the darkness of the coming year,
refusing to go back to the dim kerosene lamps of the spirit
when the brilliant electricity of Christmas
is available to show us the way.

O sing unto this glittering, glorious king,
O praise His name let every living thing          ;
Let heart and voice, like bells of silver, ring
The comfort that this day doth bring              ;
Let lute, let shawm, with sound of sweet delight,
The joy of Christ's birth this day recite.

I love the Christmas-time, and yet,
I notice this, each year I live     ;
I always like the gifts I get,
But how I love the gifts I give.

What can I give Him,
Poor as I am?
If I were a shepherd,
I would bring a lamb       ;
If I were a wise man,
I would do my part:
Yet what I can I give Him,
Give my heart.

A favorite time of year
For all who are dear
A time for love and peace
A time for all fighting to cease.

I love to watch my Christmas tree,
It blinks and sparkles bright.
So many colours of Christmas time,
It sure is a Christmas delight.

We wish you merry Christmas, also a glad New Year     ;
We come to bring you tidings to all mankind so dear:
We come to tell that Jesus was born in Bethl'em town,
And now He's gone to glory and pityingly looks down

A most inspiring time of the year
Christmas always brings such good cheer
Love and happiness does abound
Let's keep Christmas all year round.

On Christmas Eve the children are excited
The thoughts of Santa make them delighted
They find it hard to go to sleep
But they know they can't make a peep
As Santa will check to make sure they're asleep.

And after him came next the chill December:
Yet he, through merry feasting which he made,
And great bonfires, did not the cold remember          ;
His Saviour's birth his mind so much did glad:
Upon a shaggy - bearded goat he rode,
The same wherewith Dan Jove in tender years,
They say, was nourisht by th' Idaean Mayd              ;
And in his hand a broad deep bowle he beares,
Of which he freely drinks an health to all his peeres.

Wake me tonight, my mother dear,
That I may hear
The Christmas Bells, so soft and clear,
To high and low glad tidings tell,
How God the Father loved us well        ;
How God the Eternal Son
Came to undo what we had done.

Let the world rejoice
Sharing peace and love
For on this joyous Christmas day
Christ came from above.

We are all familiar with the Christmas jingles and rhymes
Family gatherings, present we give, what a wonderful time.
And the children so excited to see dear old Santa Claus,
When they do see him they show delight with applause       ;
Children promise to be good, they make Santa a pact
For they want a share of the bag on his back.

Let others look for pearl and gold
Tissues, or tabbies manifold          ;
One only lock of that sweet hay
Whereon the Blessed Baby lay,
Or one poor swaddling-clout, shall be
The richest New-Year's gift to me.

A little child,
A shining star,
A stable rude,
The door ajar.
Yet in that place,
So crude, forlorn,
The Hope of all the world was born.

At Christmas time we write these cards
Filled with love and blessings
We send them in the mail weeks ahead
And hope they find you resting.

Christmas is forever,
Not for just one day.
For loving, sharing, giving,
Are not to put away.
Like bells and lights and tinsel,
in some box upon a shelf.
The good you do for others,
Is good you do yourself.

Feel the beauty of the season
Feel the spirit of the season
Feel the excitement of the season
Feel the music of the season
Feel the peace of the season
Thank you Jesus you are the reason!

Christmas is a time for all good things
It is a time of year that peace it brings
It is a day that creates memories of love
A day that God sent his Son from above.

My children be blessed, is my prayer
I pray that God will bless them in my care
And may they experience my love in many ways
I pray they have happy holidays.

I like Christmas, for it brings lots of joy
Little children are happy over every Christmas toy.
And on this night so long ago
A child was born in a manger low,
The angels sang on this wonderful night             ;
And around them shone a holy life.

I've been waiting for Christmas
And it's almost here
I've been waiting for Christmas
Santa's getting near.
Can't you hear the sleigh bells ringing?
Reindeer up so high
Can't you hear the children singing
As they watch the sky.
I've been waiting for Christmas
And it's almost here
I've been waiting for Christmas
Santa's getting near.
Can't you hear the sleigh bells ringing?
Reindeer up so high
Can't you hear the children singing
As they watch the sky.

As Christmas comes near the world changes
we see people's attitudes and caring ways.
People helping people really doing their best
To ensure this Christmas is one that will bring happiness.
A time of the year when the heart is open
To help others and to love one another.
If only this attitude could last all year long
Our world would be so much more peaceful
And happiness would be for all.

Why do the bells of Christmas ring?
Why do little children sing?
Once a lovely shining star,
Seen by shepherds from afar,
Gently moved until its light
Made a manger's cradle bright.
There a darling baby lay,
Pillowed soft upon the hay                           ;
And its mother sung and smiled:
"This is Christ, the holy Child!"
Therefore bells for Christmas ring,
Therefore little children sing.
C is for the Christ who came To this lowly earth.
H is for the harps that rang At our Saviour's birth.
R is for the ringing bells, Telling Christmas-tide.
I is for the crystal ice Where we go to slide.
S is for the schoolboy's sled When he coasting goes.
T is for poor Tommy Jones Jack Frost bit his nose.
M is for the merry part Of this Christmas day,
A is for the apple pies Grandma put away.
S is for old Santa Claus, Coming here tonight.

I have a message for you,
And I do believe it's grand.
During this Christmas Season,
It's time to take a stand.
Remember the reason for Christmas,
And what it represents.
Jesus, loving and welcoming,
It's not just about presents.
So take this Christmas message ,
And pass it far and wide.
Christmas is a time for caring,
Let's share this message, amplified.

Old Santa Claus is a jolly man
Who brings us lots of toys, sir        ;
And none are happier Christmas time
Than little girls and boys, sir.
Have you not seen our Santa Claus,
With hair so snowy white, sir?
Just hang your stocking Christmas eve,
He'll come that very night, sir.
And if you watch, perhaps you'll see
This friend in furs hid deep, sir.
But I have never seen him once
I'm always fast asleep, sir.
Santa Claus is jolly, sir              ;
Santa Claus is kind, sir               ;
Santa Claus on Christmas eve
Comes riding on the wind, sir.

Old Santa Claus is a jolly man
Who brings us lots of toys, sir     ;
And none are happier Christmas time
Than little girls and boys, sir.

Have you not seen our Santa Claus,
With hair so snowy white, sir?
Just hang your stocking Christmas eve,
He'll come that very night, sir.

And if you watch, perhaps you'll see
This friend in furs hid deep, sir.
But I have never seen him once
I'm always fast asleep, sir.
Santa Claus is jolly, sir            ;
Santa Claus is kind, sir             ;
Santa Claus on Christmas eve
Comes riding on the wind, sir.

As Christmas approaches we feel the winter air
May your heart be warmed by feelings that you share
Take the time to tell your love ones just how much you care.
This time of year is a time to treasure
One which can bring so much pleasure
With so much love it is hard to measure.
Special gifts to be found
And beauty all around
With music filling the sound.
Oh Christmas brings such joy
To so many little girls and boys
As they look forward to Santa and new toys.
May the world never forget
how this all began, the reason
that we celebrate this holy season.

Chimneys standing in a row,
Down each one will Santa go.
He goes down one, comes back alive,
And then tries two, three, four, and five.
Santa has a wondrous pack,
This he carries on his back                ;
From it he takes candies, drums,
Dolls, books, trumpets, when he comes.
Near the chimney stockings swing,
What to them will Santa bring?
All of them I'm sure he'll fill,
Make them round and stiff and still.
Morning kisses curly heads
Lying snugly in their beds,
O how quickly they hop out,
Seizing stockings with a shout!
On the hemlock and the pine,
Light the candles, make them shine         ;
String the rows of corn so white
'Mong the gifts and tinsels bright.
Storemen's windows all look gay,
'Cause it's near to Christmas day.
Come and look in, girls and boys,
Get a peep at Christmas joys.
In high towers out of sight
Great bells ring with all their might      ;
Hear one, then another chime,
Telling it is Christmas time.
In the distance, look afar,
With their eyes upon the star,
Come on camels wise men three,
They the Christmas King shall see.

I am writing to say there is not much I need
I will let you choose and no matter I will be happy indeed.
You can get me some crayons or a book or anything that is red ;
We get lots of snow so you could bring me a sled.
Thank you Santa for visiting me
When you get here make sure to look at my tree.
For beside it, I will leave some cookies and milk for you
For the reindeer I will leave carrots too.

The spirit of Christmas needs to be superseded by the Spirit of Christ.
The spirit of Christmas is annual                                       ; the Spirit of Christ is eternal.
The spirit of Christmas is sentimental                                  ; the Spirit of Christ is supernatural.
The spirit of Christmas is a human product                              ; the Spirit of Christ is a divine person.
That makes all the difference in the world.

Christmas is coming, the close of another year
People are happy they spread much good cheer
More so at this time of year, my friend
Hold no grudges and quickly make amends.
In all that you do, may love be the rule
Love is stronger this season of Yule.
Christmas brings peace in the world which is good
If love and peace would stay, if only it would!
The magic of Christmas falls like a spell
If this feeling would stay troubles would dispel.
The magic of Christmas it comes from above
And fills us with goodness and lots of love.

I thought of an old-fashioned Christmas
When the world was aglitter with snow,
When stars, in their lockets of velvet,
Their silvery beams rain below.
Where a Christmas tree stands in a corner
Decked out in the season's attire,
With a pearl-white necklace of popcorn,
The stringing, the children's desire.
The shutters unclosed at the windows
And friendly the light shining there,
Like the neighbors who linger when passing,
For it is the hour of prayer.
I thought of an old-fashioned Christmas
And a church in the valley of peace,
And the bell with its silver chiming
That eased our cares ere it ceased.
The peals of the laughter of children
In toyland around the green tree            ;
Pleasing and happy the merriment,
How wonderful childhood must be.
The logs blaze bright in the fireplace
As the hearts that are merry and gay,
As the sleighbells I hear in the distance
And wish they were coming my way.
I wish you an old-fashioned Christmas
With neighbors and family and friends,
With church bells and singing and blessing
As the old year comes to an end.

Star of the East, that long ago
Brought wise men on their way
Where, angels singing to and fro,
The Child of Bethlehem lay -
Above that Syrian hill afar
Thou shinest out to-night, O Star!
Star of the East, the night were drear
But for the tender grace
That with thy glory comes to cheer
Earth's loneliest, darkest place       ;
For by that charity we see
Where there is hope for all and me.
Star of the East! show us the way
In wisdom undefiled
To seek that manger out and lay
Our gifts before the child -
To bring our hearts and offer them
Unto our King in Bethlehem!

Suppose that God, whose mighty hand
Created worlds, had never planned
A way for man to be redeemed.
Suppose the wise men only dreamed
That guiding star whose light still glows
Down through the centuries. Suppose
Christ never walked here in men's sight,
Our blessed Way, and Truth, and Light.
Suppose He counted all the cost,
And never cared that we were lost,
And never died for you and me,
Nor shed His blood on Calvary
Upon a shameful cross. Suppose
That having died, He never rose,
And there was none with power to save
Our souls from death beyond the grave!
As far as piteous heathen know,
These things that I've "supposed" -
are so!

It's sharing your gifts, not purchasing gifts                 ;
It's not wrapping presents,
It's being present
and wrapping your arms around the ones you love               ;
It's not getting Christmas cards out on time.
It's sending any card, anytime, at the right time             ;
It's not having the biggest and best Christmas light display,
It's displaying the Christ light that comes from your heart   ;
It's not Santa coming down the chimney,
It's Jesus coming down from heaven,
and giving us the gift of eternal life.

A baby lay in swaddling clothes, a helpless child was he              ;
A king whose robes were laid aside, He came to rescue me.
The stable was His place of birth, a lowly cattle shed                ;
The One who formed this very earth lay in a hay-strewn bed.
Judean shepherds saw the light, the message was declared,
“Behold! The King of kings has come!” Yet earth was not prepared.
Today this message still stands firm                                  ; He came to set us free,
He loved us so! He gave His life, what joy! What liberty!
We celebrate this won’drous birth, so let our voices raise!
Let hearts salute across the world and give to God the praise.
Rejoice! Rejoice! The Lord is born                                    ; the Son of God is here!
No greater gift can man receive                                       ; Rejoice, be of good cheer!

Journeying to Bethlehem, a long and tiring trek
Every bed was full that night, no matter where they checked
Stable is empty, someone said, a place to lay your head
Until a baby was born in there, a manger for a bed
Someone special and holy, the angels all said

Christened Emmanuel, a name chosen by God
How noble for one born in a situation so odd
Remembered now in prayers and churches all around the world
Immortalized in stories and songs learned by every boy and girl
Sacrificed upon the cross to forgive us all our sins
The Son of God who was born for us, who died and was born again

It never snows at Christmas in that dry and dusty land.
Instead of freezing blizzards, there are palms and drifting sands,
and years ago a stable and a most unusual star
and three wise men who followed it, by camel, not by car,
while, sleepy on the quiet hills, a shepherd gave a cry.
He'd seen a crowd of angels in the silent starlit sky.
In the stable, ox and ass stood very still and calm
and gazed upon the baby, safe and snug in Mary's arms.
And Joseph, lost in shadows, face lit by an oil lamp's glow
stood wondering, that first Christmas Day, two thousand years ago.

Though the presents are shiny and the paper is bright
And it is hard to wait through the long and cold night
To open them all the very next day
And bring out the wonderful new toys to play
It is important that we all remember
Why it is we give gifts at the end of December
Why it is we all gather and joyously sing:
To celebrate the birth of our Savior and King

I heard the bells on Christmas Day
Their old, familiar carols play,
and wild and sweet
The words repeat
Of peace on earth, goodwill to men!

Celebration of the birth of Christ
He who is the Savior
Resting in a manger, in a bed of hay
In the light of the Christmas star shining above, showing the way
Shepherds and kings all followed the light to pay tribute to Him
To leave gifts at his feet and acknowledge their King
Mary’s son, and the Son of God
A man, too, and mortal, able to die for our sins, and so
Save us from ourselves, and grant us eternal life and light

Late lies the wintry sun a-bed,
A frosty, fiery sleepy-head            ;
Blinks but an hour or two              ; and then,
A blood-red orange, sets again.
Before the stars have left the skies,
At morning in the dark I rise          ;
And shivering in my nakedness,
By the cold candle, bathe and dress.
Close by the jolly fire I sit
To warm my frozen bones a bit          ;
Or with a reindeer-sled, explore
The colder countries round the door.
When to go out, my nurse doth wrap
Me in my comforter and cap             ;
The cold wind burns my face, and blows
It's frosty pepper up my nose.
Black are my steps on silver sod       ;
Thick blows my frosty breath abroad    ;
And tree and house, and hill and lake,
Are frosted like a wedding cake.

Tonight, I look up at the stars in the sky
And remember another star, from days long gone by
That shone oh so brightly, to show men the way
To a small baby laid in a manger of hay
This baby was sweet, all shiny and new,
But he means so much more to me and to you
We know him as Jesus Christ or Emmanuel
And his story is one we have long loved to tell
Because it is a story of the best of man
Of mercy and sacrifice and God’s all-knowing plan
It is a story of love beyond measure
Of a Father who gave us His most precious treasure

I think of all this, as I look at the stars
I think about the love of this God of ours
And I close my eyes and cross myself, and I pray
That I will remember this love every day

Music I love -­ but never strain
Could kindle raptures so divine,
So grief assuage, so conquer pain,
And rouse this pensive heart of mine -­
As that we hear on Christmas morn,
Upon the wintry breezes borne.
Though Darkness still her empire keep,
And hours must pass, ere morning break   ;
From troubled dreams, or slumbers deep,
That music kindly bids us wake:
It calls us, with an angel's voice,
To wake, and worship, and rejoice        ;

The kings they came from out the south,
All dressed in ermine fine                ;
They bore Him gold and chrysoprase,
And gifts of precious wine.
The shepherds came from out the north,
Their coats were brown and old            ;
They brought Him little new-born lambs—
They had not any gold.
The wise men came from out the east,
And they were wrapped in white            ;
The star that led them all the way
Did glorify the night.
The angels came from heaven high,
And they were clad with wings             ;
And lo, they brought a joyful song
The host of heaven sings.
The kings they knocked upon the door,
The wise men entered in,
The shepherds followed after them
To hear the song begin.
The angels sang through all the night
Until the rising sun,
But little Jesus fell asleep
Before the song was done.

Sitting under the mistletoe
(Pale-green, fairy mistletoe),
One last candle burning low,
All the sleepy dancers gone,
Just one candle burning on,
Shadows lurking everywhere:
Some one came, and kissed me there.
Tired I was                            ; my head would go
Nodding under the mistletoe
(Pale-green, fairy mistletoe),
No footsteps came, no voice, but only,
Just as I sat there, sleepy, lonely,
Stooped in the still and shadowy air
Lips unseen—and kissed me there.

Awake, glad heart! get up and sing!
It is the birth-day of thy King.
Awake! awake!
The Sun doth shake
Light from his locks, and all the way
Breathing perfumes, doth spice the day.
Awake, awake! hark how th’ wood rings   ;
Winds whisper, and the busy springs
A concert make                            ;
Awake! awake!
Man is their high-priest, and should rise
To offer up the sacrifice.
I would I were some bird, or star,
Flutt’ring in woods, or lifted far
Above this inn
And road of sin!
Then either star or bird should be
Shining or singing still to thee.
I would I had in my best part
Fit rooms for thee! or that my heart
Were so clean as
Thy manger was!
But I am all filth, and obscene           ;
Yet, if thou wilt, thou canst make clean.
Sweet Jesu! will then. Let no more
This leper haunt and soil thy door!
Cure him, ease him,
O release him!
And let once more, by mystic birth,
The Lord of life be born in earth.

In the bleak midwinter, frosty wind made moan,
Earth stood hard as iron, water like a stone             ;
Snow had fallen, snow on snow, snow on snow,
In the bleak midwinter, long ago.
Our God, Heaven cannot hold Him, nor earth sustain       ;
Heaven and earth shall flee away when He comes to reign.
In the bleak midwinter, a stable place sufficed
The Lord God Almighty, Jesus Christ.
Enough for Him, whom cherubim, worship night and day,
Breastful of milk, and a mangerful of hay                ;
Enough for Him, whom angels fall before,
The ox and ass and camel which adore.
Angels and archangels may have gathered there,
Cherubim and seraphim thronged the air                   ;
But His mother only, in her maiden bliss,
Worshipped the beloved with a kiss.
What can I give Him, poor as I am?
If I were a shepherd, I would bring a lamb               ;
If I were a Wise Man, I would do my part                 ;
Yet what I can I give Him: give my heart.

Christmas Eve, and twelve of the clock.
“Now they are all on their knees,”
An elder said as we sat in a flock
By the embers in hearthside ease.
We pictured the meek mild creatures where
They dwelt in their strawy pen,
Nor did it occur to one of us there
To doubt they were kneeling then.
So fair a fancy few would weave
In these years! Yet, I feel,
If someone said on Christmas Eve,
“Come                                   ; see the oxen kneel,
“In the lonely barton by yonder coomb
Our childhood used to know,”
I should go with him in the gloom,
Hoping it might be so.

Cards in each mailbox,
angel, manger, star and lamb,
as the rural carrier,
driving the snowy roads,
hears from her bundles
the plaintive bleating of sheep,
the shuffle of sandals,
the clopping of camels.
At stop after stop,
she opens the little tin door
and places deep in the shadows
the shepherds and wise men,
the donkeys lank and weary,
the cow who chews and muses.
And from her Styrofoam cup,
white as a star and perched
on the dashboard, leading her
ever into the distance,
there is a hint of hazelnut,
and then a touch of myrrh.

God's greatest gift was sent to all
He was born in a lowly manger stall
The gift of Jesus to those who believe
Is a gift of love and life for all.
God's love was shown in his Son
He came that we may live as one
Our thanks and praise can not express
Our love for God that brings happiness.
So at this Christmas time rejoice
Praise the Lord with your voice
The miracle of that special birth
Shows how much God thinks you're worth.

…So he paused. And the Grinch put his hand to his ear.
And he did hear a sound rising over the snow.
It started in low. Then it started to grow.
But the sound wasn't sad! Why, this sound sounded merry!
It couldn't be so! But it WAS merry! VERY!
He stared down at Whoville! The Grinch popped his eyes!
Then he shook! What he saw was a shocking surprise!
Every Who down in Whoville, the tall and the small,
Was singing! Without any presents at all!
He HADN'T stopped Christmas from coming! IT CAME!
Somehow or other, it came just the same!
And the Grinch, with his grinch-feet ice-cold in the snow,
Stood puzzling and puzzling: "How could it be so?"
"It came with out ribbons! It came without tags!"
"It came without packages, boxes or bags!"
And he puzzled three hours, till his puzzler was sore.
Then the Grinch thought of something he hadn't before!
"Maybe Christmas," he thought, "doesn't come from a store."
"Maybe Christmas...perhaps...means a little bit more!”…

I'm a little pine tree
As you can see,
All the other pine trees
Are bigger than me.
Maybe when I grow up
Then I'll be
A great big merry Christmas tree!

I took a lick
Of a peppermint stick
And oh it tasted yummy!
It used to be
On the Christmas tree
But now it’s in my tummy!

Five little reindeer playing in the snow
The first one said, “Can you see my nose glow?”
The second one said, “Listen to me sing!”
The third one said, “I can hear the bells ring.”
The fourth one said, “Let’s eat the pie!”
The fifth one said, “I’m ready to fly.”
Then clomp went their hooves
And the snow fell white
As the five little reindeer flew out of sight.

Be sure to take this magic food
and sprinkle it on the lawn.
On Christmas Eve, Santa’s reindeers
travel miles before the dawn.
The smell of oats and glitter
will guide them on their way.
And you’ll wake up to Santa’s gifts
on merry Christmas day!

I made myself a snowball,
As perfect as could be,
I thought I’d keep it as a pet,
And let it sleep with me.
I made it some pajamas,
And a pillow for its head.
Then last night it ran away,
But first, it wet the bed!

Cookies baking in the kitchen,
The smell floats through the air             ;
Mom is making Christmas
with her usual merry flair
The house she gaily decorated,
Each gift she stitched with love,
And we’ll gather around the Christmas tree
for an evening of old-fashioned fun
This evening she’ll sing a carol for us
With her angel’s voice.
Yes, Mom is making Christmas,
A true reason to rejoice.

We are a band of carollers,
We march through frost and snow,
But care not for the weather
As on our way we go.
At every hall or cottage
That stands upon our way,
We stop to give the people
Best wishes for the day.
We pray a merry Christmas,
Made bright by Christmas cheer,
With peace, and hope, and gladness
And all they may hold dear.
And for all those that happen
To pass us on our way
We have a smile, and wish them
A merry Christmas-day.

A good time is coming, I wish it were here,
The very best time in the whole of the year             ;
I’m counting each day on my fingers and thumbs —
the weeks that must pass before Santa Claus comes.
Then when the first snowflakes begin to come down,
And the wind whistles sharp and the branches are brown,
I’ll not mind the cold, though my fingers it numbs,
For it brings the time nearer when Santa Claus comes.

Christmas is for giving
And for showing that we care,
For honoring the Christ Child
With the loving gifts we share.
The wise men gave of riches       ;
The shepherds, faith and love.
Each gift, in its own measure,
Was smiled on from above.
Let every gift be treasured       ;
Not always size or price
Determines the extent of love
And willing sacrifice
Handsome gifts with festive trim
Bring smiles of sweet content,
But modest gifts of humble means
are ofttimes heaven sent.
Whether it be large or small,
Each gift will share in part
The message of true Christmas joy
If given from the heart!

I'm writing a letter to Santa,
To tell him I've been oh-so-good.
I've been such a sweet little angel,
And done all the things I should.
Well, maybe not quite all the things I should,
Like doing my homework after school.
And there may have a time or two,
Where I broke the Golden Rule.
There's that time I smashed the window,
'Cause I was playing ball inside.
I knew my mom would be mad,
So I ran away to hide.
I also yanked my sister's pigtails.
I pulled them so hard she cried.
I got grounded a week for that stunt,
Although a couple times I snuck outside.
Okay, maybe I haven't been perfect,
But, Santa, I swear that I've tried.
I promise if you give me a break this year,
Next year I'll get on your good side.

I think I heard Santa ho, ho, ho.
I could have but I don't know.
Run to the window, hoping for a sleigh.
Did I just hear a reindeer neigh?
Oh Santa, it is hard to wait.
Why does the 25th have to be the date?

I wish that dear old Santa
Would take me for a ride       ;
I'd like to drive his reindeer
And sit by Santa's side.
I'd like to help old Santa
Find all the girls and boys,
So each one might be happy
With Christmas books and toys.
Jingle, jingle, jingle,
Christmas toys we'd bring      ;
Jingle, jingle, jingle,
How the bells would ring!

A pound of fun
And a pound of joy
Make a nice present
For a girl or boy.
A cup of goodness
And a cup of love
Really are gifts
From heaven above.
A pinch of holly
And a pinch of pine -
Now, we know
It's Christmas time.

Oh, Christmas is a time of year
I love with all my heart             ;
And best of all, I think I like
The getting-ready part!
We practice carols weeks ahead
And mail some things away
I get to help sign Christmas cards
And make the house look gay
We plan a program for our church
And make some gifts at school,
The postman brings us packages -
We hide them                         ; that's our rule.
We trim the Christmas tree, we cook,
We wrap for all we're worth          ;
But best of all, we read once more
Of baby Jesus'birth.

Away in a manger, no crib for a bed,
The little Lord Jesus laid down his sweet head.
The stars in the sky looked down where he lay,
The little Lord Jesus asleep in the hay.
The cattle are lowing, the baby awakes,
But little Lord Jesus no crying he makes.
I love Thee, Lord Jesus, look down from the sky
And stay by my cradle 'til morning is nigh.
Be near me, Lord Jesus, I ask Thee to stay
Close by me forever, and love me, I pray.
Bless all the dear children in thy tender care,
And take us to heaven, to live with Thee there.

Chestnuts roasting on an open fire
Jack Frost nipping at your nose
Yuletide carols being sung by a choir
And folks dressed up like Eskimos
Everybody knows a turkey and some
Mistletoe help to make the season bright
Tiny tots with their eyes all aglow
Will find it hard to sleep tonight
They know that Santa's on his way
He's loaded lots of toys and goodies
On his sleigh
And every mother's
Child is gonna spy to see if
Reindeer really know how to fly
And so, I'm offering this
Simple phrase to kids from
One to ninety-two
Altho' it's been said many times
Many ways
“Merry Christmas to you”

Deck the halls with boughs of holly, Fa la la la la la la la!
'Tis the season to be jolly, Fa la la la la la la la!
Don we now our gay apparel, Fa la la la la la la la!
Troll the ancient Yuletide carol, Fa la la la la la la la!
See the blazing yule before us, Fa la la la la la la la!
Strike the harp and join the chorus, Fa la la la la la la la!
Follow me in merry measure, Fa la la la la la la la!
While I tell of Yuletide treasure, Fa la la la la la la la!
Fast away the old year passes, Fa la la la la la la la!
Hail the new, ye lads and lasses, Fa la la la la la la la!
Sing we joyous all together! Fa la la la la la la la!

Said the night wind to the little lamb,
do you see what I see
Way up in the sky, little lamb,
do you see what I see
A star, a star, dancing in the night
With a tail as big as a kite
With a tail as big as a kite
Said the little lamb to the shepherd boy,
do you hear what I hear
Ringing through the sky, shepherd boy,
do you hear what I hear
A song, a song, high above the trees
With a voice as big as the sea
With a voice as big as the sea
Said the shepherd boy to the mighty king,
do you know what I know
In your palace warm, mighty king,
do you know what I know
A Child, a Child shivers in the cold
Let us bring Him silver and gold
Let us bring Him silver and gold
Said the king to the people everywhere,
listen to what I say
Pray for peace, people everywhere!
listen to what I say
The Child, the Child, sleeping in the night
He will bring us goodness and light
He will bring us goodness and light

Feliz Navidad
Feliz Navidad
Feliz Navidad
Prospero Ano y Felicidad.
Feliz Navidad
Feliz Navidad
Feliz Navidad
Prospero Ano y Felicidad.
I wanna wish you a Merry Christmas
I wanna wish you a Merry Christmas
I wanna wish you a Merry Christmas
From the bottom of my heart.
Feliz Navidad
Feliz Navidad
Feliz Navidad
Prospero Ano y Felicidad.
Feliz Navidad
Feliz Navidad
Feliz Navidad
Prospero Ano y Felicidad.
I wanna wish you a Merry Christmas
I wanna wish you a Merry Christmas
I wanna wish you a Merry Christmas
From the bottom of my heart.

The First Noel the angel did say
Was to certain poor shepherds
in fields as they lay                       ;
In fields as they lay, keeping their sheep,
On a cold winter's night that was so deep.
Noel, Noel, Noel, Noel,
Born is the King of Israel.
They looked up and saw a star
Shining in the east beyond them far,
And to the earth it gave great light,
And so it continued both day and night.
And by the light of that same star
Three wise men came from country far        ;
To seek for a king was their intent,
And to follow the star wherever it went.
This star drew nigh to the northwest,
O'er Bethlehem it took it rest,
And there it did both stop and stay
Right over the place where Jesus lay.
Then entered in those wise men three
Full reverently upon their knee,
and offered there in his presence
Their gold, and myrrh, and frankincense.
Then let us all with one accord
Sing praises to our heavenly Lord           ;
That hath made heaven and earth of naught,
And with his blood mankind hath bought

Frosty the Snowman, was a jolly happy soul,
With a corn cob pipe and a button nose, and two eyes made of coal.
Frosty the Snowman, is a fairytale, they say.
He was made of snow, but the children know he came to life one day.
There must have been some magic in that old silk hat they found,
For when they placed it on his head, he began to dance around!
Oh, Frosty, the Snowman, was alive as he could be                         ;
and the children say he could laugh and play,
just the same as you and me.
Thumpety thump, thump, thumpety thump, thump,
look at Frosty go.
Thumpety thump, thump, thumpety thump, thump,
over the hills of snow.
Frosty the Snowman, knew the sun was hot that day,
so he said, "Let's run, and we'll have some fun now, before I melt away."
Down to the village, with a broomstick in his hand,
Running here and there, all around the square,
sayin', "Catch me if you can."
He led them down the streets of town, right to the traffic cop            ;
and only paused a moment, when he heard him holler, "Stop!"
For Frosty, the Snowman, had to hurry on his way,
But he waved goodbye, sayin' "Don't cry, I'll be back again some day."

Grandma got run over by a reindeer
Walking home from our house Christmas eve
You can say there's no such thing as Santa
But as for me and Grandpa, we believe
She'd been drinkin' too much egg nog
And we'd begged her not to go
But she'd left her medication
So she stumbled out the door into the snow
When they found her Christmas mornin'
At the scene of the attack
There were hoof prints on her forehead
And incriminatin' Claus marks on her back
Grandma got run over by a reindeer
Walkin' home from our house Christmas eve
You can say there's no such thing as Santa
But as for me and Grandpa, we believe
Now were all so proud of Grandpa
He's been takin' this so well
See him in there watchin' football
Drinkin' beer and playin' cards with cousin Belle
It's not Christmas without Grandma
All the family's dressed in black
And we just can't help but wonder
Should we open up her gifts or send them back?
Grandma got run over by a reindeer
Walkin' home from our house Christmas eve
You can say there's no such thing as Santa
But as for me and Grandpa, we believe
Now the goose is on the table
And the pudding made of pig
And a blue and silver candle
That would just have matched the hair in Grandma's wig
I've warned all my friends and neighbors
Better watch out for yourselves
They should never give a license
To a man who drives a sleigh and plays with elves
Grandma got run over by a reindeer
Walkin' home from our house, Christmas eve
You can say there's no such thing as Santa
But as for me and Grandpa, we believe!

You're a mean one, Mr. Grinch
You really are a heel,
You're as cuddly as a cactus, you're as charming as an eel, Mr. Grinch,
You're a bad banana with a greasy black peel!
You're a monster, Mr. Grinch,
Your heart's an empty hole,
Your brain is full of spiders, you have garlic in your soul, Mr. Grinch,
I wouldn't touch you with a thirty-nine-and-a-half foot pole!
You're a foul one, Mr. Grinch,
You have termites in your smile,
You have all the tender sweetness of a seasick crocodile, Mr. Grinch,
Given a choice between the two of you'd take the seasick crocodile!
You're a rotter, Mr. Grinch,
You're the king of sinful sots,
Your heart's a dead tomato splotched with moldy purple spots, Mr. Grinch,
You're a three decker sauerkraut and toadstool sandwich with arsenic sauce!
You nauseate me, Mr. Grinch,
With a nauseous super "naus"!,
You're a crooked dirty jockey and you drive a crooked hoss, Mr. Grinch,
Your soul is an appalling dump heap overflowing with the most disgraceful
assortment of rubbish imaginable mangled up in tangled up knots!
You're a foul one, Mr. Grinch,
You're a nasty wasty skunk,
Your heart is full of unwashed socks, your soul is full of gunk, Mr. Grinch,
The three words that best describe you are as follows, and I quote,
"Stink, stank, stunk"!

Hark! the herald angels sing,
"Glory to the newborn King!"
Peace on earth, and mercy mild,
God and sinners reconciled
Joyful, all ye nations, rise,
Join the triumph of the skies          ;
With th' angelic host proclaim,
"Christ is born in Bethlehem."
Hark! the herald angels sing,
"Glory to the newborn King!"
Christ, by highest heav'n adored:
Christ, the everlasting Lord           ;
Late in time behold him come,
Offspring of the favored one.
Veil'd in flesh, the Godhead see       ;
Hail, th'incarnate Deity:
Pleased, as man, with men to dwell,
Jesus, our Emmanuel!
Hark! the herald angels sing,
"Glory to the newborn King!"
Hail! the heav'n born Prince of peace!
Hail! the Son of Righteousness!
Light and life to all he brings,
Risen with healing in his wings
Mild he lays his glory by,
Born that man no more may die:
Born to raise the sons of earth,
Born to give them second birth.
Hark! the herald angels sing,
"Glory to the newborn King!"

Have yourself a merry little Christmas
Let your heart be light
From now on
our troubles will be out of sight
Have yourself a merry little Christmas
Make the Yule-tide gay
From now on your troubles will be miles away
Here were are as in olden days
happy golden days of yore
Faithful friends who are dear to us
to gather near to us once more
Through the years we all will be together
If the Fates allow
Hang a shining star upon the highest bough
And have yourself a merry little Christmas now.

Here comes Santa Claus, here comes Santa Claus,
Right down Santa Claus lane
Vixen and Blitzen and all his reindeer
Pullin' on the reins
Bells are ringin', children singin'
All is merry and bright
Hang your stockings and say your prayers
'Cause Santa Claus comes tonight!
Here comes Santa Claus, here comes Santa Claus,
Right down Santa Claus lane
He's got a bag that's filled with toys
For boys and girls again
Hear those sleigh bells jingle jangle,
Oh what a beautiful sight
So jump in bed and cover your head
'Cause Santa Claus comes tonight!
Here comes Santa Claus, here comes Santa Claus,
Right down Santa Claus lane
He doesn't care if you're rich or poor
He loves you just the same
Santa Claus knows we're all Gods children
That makes everything right
So fill your hearts with Christmas cheer
'Cause Santa Claus comes tonight!
Here comes Santa Claus, here comes Santa Claus,
Right down Santa Claus lane
He'll come around when the chimes ring out
That it's Christmas morn again
Peace on earth will come to all
If we just follow the light
So lets give thanks to the lord above
That Santa Claus comes tonight!

Have a holly, jolly Christmas     ;
It's the best time of the year
I don't know if there'll be snow
but have a cup of cheer
Have a holly, jolly Christmas     ;
And when you walk down the street
Say Hello to friends you know
and everyone you meet
Oh ho
the mistletoe
hung where you can see            ;
Somebody waits for you            ;
Kiss her once for me
Have a holly jolly Christmas
and in case you didn't hear
Oh by golly
have a holly jolly Christmas
this year

I'll be home for Christmas
You can plan on me
Please have snow and mistletoe
And presents on the tree
Christmas Eve will find me
Where the love light gleams
I'll be home for Christmas
If only in my dreams
I'll be home for Christmas
You can plan on me
Please have snow and mistletoe
And presents on the tree
Christmas Eve will find me
Where the love light gleams
I'll be home for Christmas
If only in my dreams
If only in my dreams

It came upon the midnight clear,
That glorious song of old,
From angels bending near the earth
To touch their harps of gold!
Peace on the earth, good will to men,
From heaven's all gracious King!
The world in solemn stillness lay
To hear the angels sing.
Still through the cloven skies they come
With peaceful wings unfurled
And still their heavenly music floats
O'er all the weary world                 ;
Above its sad and lowly plains
They bend on hovering wing.
And ever o'er its Babel sounds
The blessed angels sing.
Yet with te woes of sin and strife
The world hath suffered long             ;
Beneath the angel-strain have rolled
Two thousand years of wrong              ;
And man, at war with man, hears not
The love song which they bring:
O hush the noise, ye men of strife,
And hear the angels sing.
For lo! the days are hastening on,
By prophet bards foretold,
When, with the ever-circling years,
Shall come the Age of Gold               ;
When peace shall over all the earth
Its ancient splendors fling,
And all the world give back the song
Which now the angels sing.

It's beginning to look a lot like Christmas
Ev'rywhere you go                                                 ;
Take a look in the five-and-ten, glistening once again
With candy canes and silver lanes aglow.
It's beginning to look a lot like Christmas,
Toys in ev'ry store,
But the prettiest sight to see is the holly that will be
On your own front door.
A pair of hopalong boots and a pistol that shoots
Is the wish of Barney and Ben                                     ;
Dolls that will talk and will go for a walk
Is the hope of Janice and Jen                                     ;
And Mom and Dad can hardly wait for school to start again.
It's beginning to look a lot like Christmas
Ev'rywhere you go                                                 ;
There's a tree in the Grand Hotel, one in the park as well,
The sturdy kind that doesn't mind the snow.
It's beginning to look a lot like Christmas                       ;
Soon the bells will start,
And the thing that will make them ring is the carol that you sing
Right within your heart.

Dashing through the snow
On a one horse open sleigh
O'er the fields we go,
Laughing all the way
Bells on bob tail ring,
making spirits bright
What fun it is to laugh and sing
A sleighing song tonight
Oh, jingle bells, jingle bells
Jingle all the way
Oh, what fun it is to ride
In a one horse open sleigh
Jingle bells, jingle bells
Jingle all the way
Oh, what fun it is to ride
In a one horse open sleigh
A day or two ago,
I thought I'd take a ride,
And soon Miss Fanny Bright
Was seated by my side            ;
The horse was lean and lank
Misfortune seemed his lot
We got into a drifted bank,
And then we got upsot.
Oh, jingle bells, jingle bells
Jingle all the way
Oh, what fun it is to ride
In a one horse open sleigh
Jingle bells, jingle bells
Jingle all the way
Oh, what fun it is to ride
In a one horse open sleigh
Jingle Bells, Jingle Bells,
Jingle all the way!
Oh, What fun it is to ride
In a one horse open sleigh.
Jingle Bells, Jingle Bells,
Jingle all the way!
Oh, What fun it is to ride
In a one horse open sleigh.
Now the ground is white
Go it while you're young
Take the girls tonight
And sing this sleighing song
Just get a bob tailed bay
two-forty as his speed
Hitch him to an open sleigh
And crack! you'll take the lead
Jingle Bells, Jingle Bells,
Jingle all the way!
Oh, What fun it is to ride
In a one horse open sleigh.
Jingle Bells, Jingle Bells,
Jingle all the way!
Oh, What fun it is to ride
In a one horse open sleigh.

Jingle bell, jingle bell, jingle bell rock
Jingle bells swing and jingle bells ring
Snowing and blowing up bushels of fun
Now the jingle hop has begun
Jingle bell, jingle bell, jingle bell rock
Jingle bells chime in jingle bell time
Dancing and prancing in Jingle Bell Square
In the frosty air.
What a bright time, it's the right time
To rock the night away
Jingle bell time is a swell time
To go gliding in a one-horse sleigh
Giddy-up jingle horse, pick up your feet
Jingle around the clock
Mix and a-mingle in the jingling feet
That's the jingle bell,
That's the jingle bell,
That's the jingle bell rock

Joy to The world! the Lord is come
Let earth receive her King
Let ev'ry heart prepare him room
And heaven and nature sing
And heaven and nature sing
And heaven and nature sing
Joy to the world! the Savior reigns
Let men their songs employ
While fields and floods, rocks, hills and plains
Repeat the sounding joy
Repeat the sounding joy
Repeat the sounding joy
No more let sins and sorrows grow,
Nor thorns infest the ground                     ;
He comes to make His blessings flow
Far as the curse is found,
Far as the curse is found,
Far as, far as, the curse is found.
He rules the world with truth and grace
And makes the nations prove
The glories of His righteousness
And wonders of His love
And wonders of His love
And wonder wonders of His love

Oh the weather outside is frightful
But the fire is so delightful
And since we've no place to go
Let It Snow! Let It Snow! Let It Snow!
It doesn't show signs of stopping
And I've bought some corn for popping
The lights are turned way down low
Let It Snow! Let It Snow! Let It Snow!
When we finally kiss good night
How I'll hate going out in the storm!
But if you'll really hold me tight
All the way home I'll be warm
The fire is slowly dying
And, my dear, we're still goodbying
But as long as you love me so
Let It Snow! Let It Snow! Let It Snow!

It's the most wonderful time of the year
With the kids jingle belling
And everyone telling you "Be of good cheer"
It's the most wonderful time of the year
It's the hap-happiest season of all
With those holiday greetings and gay happy meetings
When friends come to call
It's the hap- happiest season of all
There'll be parties for hosting
Marshmallows for toasting
And caroling out in the snow
There'll be scary ghost stories
And tales of the glories of
Christmases long, long ago
It's the most wonderful time of the year
There'll be much mistletoeing
And hearts will be glowing
When love ones are near
It's the most wonderful time of the year
There'll be parties for hosting
Marshmallows for toasting
And caroling out in the snow
There'll be scary ghost stories
And tales of the glories of
Christmases long, long ago
It's the most wonderful time of the year
There'll be much mistletoeing
And hearts will be glowing
When love ones are near
It's the most wonderful time
It's the most wonderful time
It's the most wonderful time
It's the most wonderful time of the year

O Christmas tree, O Christmas tree!
How are thy leaves so verdant!
O Christmas tree, O Christmas tree,
How are thy leaves so verdant!
Not only in the summertime,
But even in winter is thy prime.
O Christmas tree, O Christmas tree,
How are thy leaves so verdant!
O Christmas tree, O Christmas tree,
Much pleasure doth thou bring me!
O Christmas tree, O Christmas tree,
Much pleasure doth thou bring me!
For every year the Christmas tree,
Brings to us all both joy and glee.
O Christmas tree, O Christmas tree,
Much pleasure doth thou bring me!
O Christmas tree, O Christmas tree,
Thy candles shine out brightly!
O Christmas tree, O Christmas tree,
Thy candles shine out brightly!
Each bough doth hold its tiny light,
That makes each toy to sparkle bright.
O Christmas tree, O Christmas tree,
Thy candles shine out brightly!

O come, all ye faithful,
Joyful and triumphant,
O come ye, O come ye to Bethlehem.
Come and behold Him,
Born the King of Angels!
O come, let us adore Him,
O come, let us adore Him,
O come, let us adore Him,
Christ the Lord.
Sing, alleluia,
All ye choirs of angels                       ;
O sing, all ye blissful ones of heav'n above.
Glory to God
In the highest glory!
O come, let us adore Him,
O come, let us adore Him,
O come, let us adore Him,
Christ the Lord.
Yea, Lord, we greet Thee,
Born this happy morning                       ;
Jesus, to Thee be the glory giv'n             ;
Word of the Father,
Now in the flesh appearing,
O come, let us adore Him,
O come, let us adore Him,
O come, let us adore Him,
Christ the Lord.

O Holy Night!
The stars are brightly shining
It is the night of the dear Savior's birth!
Long lay the world in sin and error pining
Till he appear'd and the soul felt its worth.
A thrill of hope the weary soul rejoices
For yonder breaks a new and glorious morn!
Fall on your knees
Oh hear the angel voices
Oh night divine
Oh night when Christ was born
Oh night divine
Oh night divine
Led by the light of Faith serenely beaming
With glowing hearts by His cradle we stand
So led by light of a star sweetly gleaming
Here come the wise men from Orient land
The King of Kings lay thus in lowly manger
In all our trials born to be our friend
Truly He taught us to love one another
His law is love and His gospel is peace
Chains shall He break for the slave is our brother
And in His name all oppression shall cease
Sweet hymns of joy in grateful chorus raise we,
Let all within us praise His holy name

You know Dasher, and Dancer, and
Prancer, and Vixen,
Comet, and Cupid, and
Donder and Blitzen
But do you recall
The most famous reindeer of all
Rudolph, the red-nosed reindeer
had a very shiny nose
and if you ever saw it
you would even say it glows.
All of the other reindeer
used to laugh and call him names
They never let poor Rudolph
play in any reindeer games.
Then one foggy Christmas eve
Santa came to say:
"Rudolph with your nose so bright,
won't you guide my sleigh tonight?"
Then all the reindeer loved him
as they shouted out with glee,
Rudolph the red-nosed reindeer,
you'll go down in history!

Santa baby, just slip a sable under the tree for me             ;
Been an awful good girl, Santa baby
and hurry down the chimney tonight
Santa baby, a '54 convertible too, light blue
I'll wait up for you dear, Santa baby
and hurry down the chimney tonight
Think of all the fun I've missed
Think of all the fellas that I haven't kissed
Next year I could be just as good...
if you'd check off my Christmas list
Santa baby, I want a yacht and really that's not a lot
Been an angel all year                                          ; Santa baby,
so hurry down the chimney tonight
Santa honey, there's one thing I really do need,
the deed - To a platinum mine, Santa baby
so hurry down the chimney tonight
Santa baby, I'm filling my stocking with the duplex, and checks
Sign your 'X' on the line, Santa cutie,
and hurry down the chimney tonight
Come and trim my Christmas tree
With some decorations bought at Tiffany                         ;
I really do believe in you
Let's see if you believe in me
Santa baby, forgot to mention one little thing, a ring
I don't mean a phone, Santa baby,
so hurry down the chimney tonight
Hurry down the chimney tonight
Hurry tonight

You better watch out
You better not cry
Better not pout
I'm telling you why
Santa Claus is coming to town
He's making a list
And checking it twice
Gonna find out Who's naughty and nice
Santa Claus is coming to town
He sees you when you're sleeping
He knows when you're awake
He knows if you've been bad or good
So be good for goodness sake!
O! You better watch out!
You better not cry
Better not pout
I'm telling you why
Santa Claus is coming to town
Santa Claus is coming to town

Silent night, holy night!
All is calm, all is bright.
Round yon Virgin, Mother and Child.
Holy infant so tender and mild,
Sleep in heavenly peace,
Sleep in heavenly peace
Silent night, holy night!
Shepherds quake at the sight.
Glories stream from heaven afar
Heavenly hosts sing Alleluia,
Christ the Savior is born!
Christ the Savior is born
Silent night, holy night!
Son of God love's pure light.
Radiant beams from Thy holy face
With dawn of redeeming grace,
Jesus Lord, at Thy birth
Jesus Lord, at Thy birth

Just hear those sleigh bells jingle-ing
Ring ting tingle-ing too
Come on, it's lovely weather
For a sleigh ride together with you
Outside the snow is falling
And friends are calling "Yoo Hoo"
Come on, it's lovely weather
For a sleigh ride together with you
Giddy-yap giddy-yap giddy-yap
let's go
Let's look at the snow
We're riding in a wonderland of snow
Giddy-yap giddy-yap giddy-yap it's grand
Just holding your hand
We're gliding along with the song
Of a wintry fairy land
Our cheeks are nice and rosy
And comfy cozy are we
We're snuggled up together like two
Birds of a feather would be
Let's take the road before us
And sing a chorus or two
Come on, it's lovely weather
For a sleigh ride together with you
There's a birthday party at the home of Farmer Gray
It'll be the perfect ending of a perfect day
We'll be singing the songs we love to sing without a single stop
At the fireplace while we watch the chestnuts pop
Pop! Pop! Pop!
There's a happy feeling nothing in the world can buy
When they pass around the coffee and the pumpkin pie
It'll nearly be like a picture print by Currier and Ives
These wonderful things are the things
We remember all through our lives

City sidewalks, busy sidewalks.
Dressed in holiday style
In the air
There's a feeling
of Christmas
Children laughing
People passing
Meeting smile after smile
and on every street corner you'll hear
Silver bells, silver bells
It's Christmas time in the city
Ring-a-ling, hear them sing
Soon it will be Christmas day
Strings of street lights
Even stop lights
Blink a bright red and green
As the shoppers rush
home with their treasures
Hear the snow crunch
See the kids bunch
This is Santa's big scene
And above all this bustle
You'll hear
Silver bells, silver bells
It's Christmas time in the city
Ring-a-ling, hear them sing
Soon it will be Christmas day

We wish you a Merry Christmas,
We wish you a Merry Christmas,
We wish you a Merry Christmas,
And a Happy New Year.
Good tidings to you,
And all of your kin,
Good tidings for Christmas,
And a Happy New Year.
We all know that Santa's coming,
We all know that Santa's coming,
We all know that Santa's coming,
And soon will be here.
Good tidings to you,
And all of your kin,
Good tidings for Christmas,
And a Happy New Year.
We wish you a Merry Christmas,
We wish you a Merry Christmas,
We wish you a Merry Christmas,
And a Happy New Year

I'm dreaming of a White Christmas
Just like the ones I used to know
Where the treetops glisten
and children listen
To hear sleigh bells in the snow.
I'm dreaming of a white Christmas
With every Christmas card I write
May your days be merry and bright
And may all your Christmases be white.
I'm dreaming of a white Christmas
Just like the ones I used to know
Where the treetops glisten
And children listen
To hear sleigh bells in the snow
I'm dreaming of a white Christmas
With every Christmas card I write
May your days be merry and bright
And may all your Christmases be white

Sleigh bells ring
are you listening
in the lane
snow is glistening
A beautiful sight
we're happy tonight
walking in a winter wonderland
Gone away is the bluebird
here to stay is a new bird
He sings a love song
as we go along
walking in a winter wonderland
In the meadow we can build a snowman
Then pretend that he is Parson Brown
He'll say: Are you married?
we'll say: No man
But you can do the job
when you're in town
Later on
we'll conspire
as we dream by the fire
To face unafraid
the plans that we've made
walking in a winter wonderland
In the meadow we can build a snowman
and pretend that he's a circus clown
We'll have lots of fun with mister snowman
until the the other kids knock him down
When it snows
ain't it thrilling
Though your nose gets a chilling
We'll frolic and play
the Eskimo way
walking in a winter wonderland
Walking in a winter wonderland
walking in a winter wonderland

What do we love about Christmas      ;
Does our delight reside in things?
Or are the feelings in our hearts
The real gift Christmas brings.
It's seeing those we love,
And sending Christmas cards, too,
Appreciating people who bring us joy
Special people just like you.

Christmas is full of shiny things
That sparkle, gleam and glow.
These holiday pleasures dazzle us,
And yet, deep down, we know...
That Christmas has its special gifts,
But our year-round joy depends
On the cherished people in our lives,
Our family and friends.

Under the tree the gifts enthrall,
But the nicest present of them all
Is filling our thoughts with those who care,
Wanting our Christmas joy to share.
To you, whom we're often thinking of,
We send our holiday joy and love.

The Christmas gift list,
We all agree,
Requires a massive
Shopping spree.
Wrap it up,
Shiny paper and bows.
What’s inside
We won’t disclose!
Then the tree,
Fragrant and green.
Each year it's the best
We've ever seen.
Hang the bulbs
Ornaments too.
Light it up,
Say” ahh,” and “ooh!”
Plan the feast,
Same recipes,
All our favorites,
Prepared to please.
Christmas customs
On joyful display.
It's always the same          ;
We love it that way.
So bring it all,
So necessary,
Beloved traditions
Make Christmas merry.

We're thinking of you,
hoping this is your best Christmas yet,
full of your favorite holiday pleasures.
May the foods taste delicious,
bringing happy nostalgia
for all the Christmases past.
May the decorations dazzle, glitter and glow.
May the gifts you give and get
be exactly the right thing.
May you delight in the warmth of love,
creating even stronger bonds
with family and friends.
Merry Christmas! May this Christmas
live happily in your memory forever.

Evergreen boughs that fill our homes
With fragrant Christmas scents,
Hearts filled with the loving glow
That Christmas represents            ;
Christmas cookies, turkeys stuffed,
Festive holly berry,
Little faces bright with joy,
Loved ones being merry               ;
Parties, songs, beribboned gifts,
Silver bells that tinkle,
Christmas trees and ornaments,
Colorful lights that twinkle         ;
Relatives waiting with open arms
To smile and hug and kiss us         ;
These are some of the special joys
That come along with Christmas.

This Christmas,
may you have the fulfillment
of seeing around you
the people you love the most.
May you have the satisfaction
of creating special memories
they will remember with pleasure forever.
This Christmas,
may you feel peaceful and contented,
knowing what Christmas means,
and celebrating it your way.

Take a heap of child-like wonder
That opens up our eyes
To the unexpected gifts in life—
Each day a sweet surprise.
Mix in fond appreciation
For the people whom we know         ;
Like festive Christmas candles,
Each one has a special glow.
Add some giggles and some laughter,
A dash of Christmas food,
(Amazing how a piece of pie
Improves our attitude!)
Stir it all with human kindness     ;
Wrap it up in love and peace,
Decorate with optimism, and
Our joy will never cease.
If we use this healthy recipe,
We know we will remember
To be in the Christmas spirit,
Even when it's not December.

The tempting gifts are tantalizing            ;
About opening them, we are fantasizing.
The holiday foods are appetizing              ;
Our excitement and joy are growing and rising ;
Our hearts and minds are harmonizing          ;
Jolly Christmas fun we're maximizing!

Are we too grownup to feel a thrill
As we light the Christmas tree?
Are we immune to cookies,
Christmas cards and Christmas glee?
Are we too adult to "Ooh" and "Aah"
At the Christmas candle's glow?
Are we blasé about our gifts        ;
Do we shun the mistletoe?
Are we too mature for carols,
For merry or for jolly?
Do the decorations leave us cold,
The ornaments and holly?
Fat chance! We'll never grow too old
To love the Christmas magic.
A year without a Christmas
Would be boring, even tragic.
So bring it on! The candy canes,
The feasting and good cheer          ;
O Christmas, lovely Christmas,
You're the highlight of the year!

Christmas tree, sparkling bright,
Filled with baubles, warmth and light,
Precious symbol of our affection
For Christmas time and its perfection,
Show each night your radiant glory
For "oohs" and "aahs" obligatory.
Christmas tree, don't let us down      ;
Show something special at your crown,
An angel, star, or splendid piece
To make our holiday joy increase,
An icon, pure, ideal, complete,
For Christmas memories fond and sweet.
Glitter and glisten, gleam and glow,
Oh Christmas tree, we love you so!

Every year at Christmas time
There's not a sign of snow.
Instead we spend our yuletide days
In the sun's warm cheery glow.
We have the best of Christmas things,
The lights, the gifts, the bells,
(And "snowbirds" who arrive en masse
To fill our beach hotels.)
The glorious weather fits right in
With our happy Christmas mood,
And we can also walk and run
Without having to be snowshoed.
So don't feel bad for your (location) friends
Who have no snow or ice.
We think our sunny Christmas here
Is a holiday paradise!

While you enjoy the gifts,
food, sparkle of ornaments and lights,
feasting on favorite foods,
I wish this Christmas
would envelop you
in the special warmth
and rich contentment
the season brings.
I wish friends, family,
all those who love you
let you know how much they care,
so that you feel happily wrapped
in their affection.
I wish this Christmas
would be one you never forget,
a shining beacon in your memory
to light all of your days.

We hope your Christmas overflows
with the true and lasting gifts
of warm, happy, forever memories,
filled with friends, family,
and your favorite Christmas treasures.

Among our Christmas gifts
Is something we hold dear.
We're thankful for this pleasure
Each and every year.
It's a gift in every day,
All the long year through.
It's your special, treasured friendship ;
Our cherished gift is you!

We're sending this Christmas greeting,
Full of holiday cheer
To you very special people             ;
Merry Christmas and Happy New Year!

May your home
be a haven of Christmas love,
joy, peace and happiness,
that lasts the whole year through.

Christmas is filled with special joys,
And the very best of all
Is contemplating those dear to us,
And the memories we recall.
We often think at Christmas time
Of people, affectionately,
And we realize how blessed we are
To have you in our family.

The Christmas season fills our hearts with joy              ;
Bright, happy days bring special kinds of pleasure.
We're wrapped in the excitement of it all,
The sights, the sounds, the smells, the tastes we treasure.
Yet when we have some quiet time to think
About our finest blessings all year through,
We focus on our family and our friends,
And appreciate the gift of knowing you!

As Christmas time arrives,
We think of you and smile   ;
Your friendship is the gift
We think most worthwhile.
The packages are pretty
Underneath the tree,
But what we value most
Is your ability

To bring joy to our lives
In everything you do,
Enriching time together
Just by being you.

Christmas vacation is great                 ;
My time is mine to spend                    ;
I can be with friends or watch TV           ;
I wish it would never end.
I don't miss school or homework             ;
I really like to be free                    ;
But I'll miss you when I'm gone from school ;
You're just what a teacher should be.
So have a perfect Christmas                 ;
Be sure to have lots of fun                 ;
I look forward to seeing you again,
When Christmas vacation is done.

At Christmastime I think of all the gifts
That bring me great delight and sweet surprise,
But nothing in this world can bring such joy
As you do, when you look into my eyes.
And when I contemplate what Christmas means,
The caring and the giving--I confess,
You've given me the things I want the most:
Your love, your touch, your kiss, your warm caress.
The Christmas tree reminds me, with its lights
That just the thought of you sets me aglow          ;
You light me up from deep within my heart,
Because I cherish you, and love you so.
With you it's Christmas all the time, sweetheart.
I treasure every hour and every minute.
Your love is all I'll ever want because,
My life is so fulfilling with you in it.

If you sat beneath the Christmas tree,
You'd sure add to the décor,
But even if you were gift wrapped, dear,
I couldn't love you more.
You have to know that if I had you,
I’d have the gift I'd most adore,
Better than any expensive gift
I could purchase in a store.
If you hug me tight, you wonderful thing,
And be my Christmas gift,
You’ll brighten my days forevermore
And give my heart a lift.

The most wonderful gift ever given to me
Isn't one to be found by a Christmas tree.
It's you, my treasure, my wonderful wife,
The most beautiful, glorious thing in my life.
You are caring and warm, in truth, a delight,
A most wonderful prize whose love still shines bright.
I shudder to think how bare life would be,
If the gift of your love weren't given to me.
You are Christmas delights all wrapped into one,
And those joys still go on when Christmas is done!

For most, this time of year
Is ornaments, lights and gifts.
People are out to shop,
Though snow may mass in drifts.
For me this time is different
From what others feel and see    ;
For me it's just more happiness
Full of you and me.
You fill my life with joy
Each moment that we share.
I'm thankful for time with you   ;
Nothing can compare.
I want to make life good for you
In every way I can.
You’ve been my own true love
Since our relationship began.
So I’m writing you this poem
To help you to feel my love      ;
We can be this way forever,
With help from up above.

There's no better Christmas gift in my whole life
Than having you as my wonderful wife.
I'm blessed each day when I see your smile,
And I hope it keeps shining for quite a long while.
So on this wonderful Christmas day,
Hope for your happiness is what I pray.
I love you a lot, my Sweets, my wife.
I wish you'll be happy for the rest of your life.

I made a Christmas wish for you,
For a holiday full of pleasure,
Friends and family all around,
And memories to treasure.
I wish for you a Christmas filled
With joyous holiday cheer         ;
I wish you a Merry Christmas,
And a very Happy New Year!

May this holiday season
leave you with precious memories:
A Christmas filled with love and light,
perfect gifts, delicious foods,
love and joy all around.
A New Year with continuing blessings—
friends, family, good work, great fun,
and delightful surprises.
Merry Christmas and Happy New Year!

We're wishing you a Christmas
Full of laughter, love and light,
With delicious holiday foods
To excite your appetite.
We're hoping you receive
Delightful gifts to make you smile,
With family and friends
To love you all the while.
We wish you a Merry Christmas        ;
May your Christmas dreams come true,
And when Christmas is over,
Happy New Year, too!

We’re thinking of you at Christmas time,
Sending this cordial Christmas rhyme,
With our very best wishes and heartfelt good cheer ;
Merry Christmas and Happy New Year!

Late Christmas Eve, when all was still,
And the room was dark as night,
The Christmas tree lit magically           ;
It was a fantastic sight!
Then from around the tree trunk came,
A strange and funny sound,
As gifts began to unwrap themselves,
And toys jumped out all around.
The music box began to play,
And in a crazy trance,
The candy canes jumped off the tree
To do a silly dance.
The big stuffed bear leaped to his feet,
To see what he could see                   ;
He rode a shiny, bright red bike
Around the Christmas tree.
The new toy kitchen started to cook,
And before you could blink an eye,
The oven door opened, and from inside
Came a tiny pizza pie.
A squirt gun squirted everything           ;
It knew what it was for                    ;
By the time that it was emptied out,
A big puddle lay on the floor.
A beautiful doll with golden hair
Was searching for a friend                 ;
A toy soldier marched up and took her hand ;
They were a perfect blend.
In the bedroom were a boy and girl,
Asleep in Christmas dreams                 ;
The soldier saluted                        ; the doll gave a kiss;
At least that's the way it seems.
Now everything began to tire               ;
The toys went back in place                ;
But when mother woke in the morning,
You should have seen her face.

The tree was fine                      ; the gifts were there,
Yet mother gave a roar                 ;
She looked at her wet shoes and yelled
"What's this puddle on my floor?"

Holiday time is for feasting              ;
We look forward to each treat.
The tables are full of our favorite foods ;
We’ve got lots of good things to eat.
We scarf marshmallowed sweet potatoes     ;
There’s cider and eggnog to slurp.
There’s so much going down at once,
Who can help an occasional burp?
Here’s the turkey, dressing and gravy   ;
Let’s all get down to chewing it,
And if we pass a little gas,
Who’ll notice? Everyone’s doing it.
Dessert is three kinds of pie             ;
Then pass the box of candy.
Next year will you please remind us
To have Alka-Seltzer handy!

We hope this Christmas enriches your life  ;
May each day be happy and bright,
Overflowing with pleasure and love         ;
May your Christmas be filled with delight.

May the days until Christmas be full of sweet pleasure,
And your holidays create joyful memories to treasure.
Merry Christmas and Happy New Year!

Christmas trees, presents and holly wreaths,
The feeling of love like a warm embrace,
Family and friends surrounding you,
With Christmas joy in each precious face.
That’s my wish for you for Christmas!

Excitement and joy are filling the air         ;
The lights add special decor.
We're shopping for Christmas gifts everywhere,
But are gifts what Christmas is for?
The wreaths and the trees and the parties
Aren't what we need to convey                  ;
It's the birth of our Savior, Jesus,
The real reason for this holiday.

The turkey's bought and will soon be stuffed     ;
The guest room's ready, the pillows fluffed.
The closet's full of holiday gifts               ;
The snow is here, piled up in drifts.
Our plans are made for the coming New Year       ;
Now it's time to contemplate those who are dear.
We're thinking of you and how special you are    ;
Next to your name, we've put a star.
“Why?” you ask                               ; well here's a clue:
We feel so blessed that we know you.
Happy Holidays!

I'm wishing at this Christmas time
that I could but repay
A portion of the gladness
that you've strewn along the way     ;
And could I have one wish this year,
this only would it be:
I'd like to be the sort of friend
that you have been to me.

For all of the presents
You put under the tree,
For all of the times
You picked up after me...
For all of the times
That you tucked me in tight
And we stayed up to talk
Long into the night
For all of the days
I was feeling so down
And the times that you turned
To a smile my frown
For the cookies you baked
And the stockings you stuffed,
For the cuts that you healed
And the pillows you fluffed...
For the time that you took
Off the training wheels
For the nights that you made me
My favorite meals
For the years throughout
Elementary school
For knowing the right thing
Isn't always what's cool
For putting up with
Those preteen years
For making it through
All the laughs and the tears
For all of the days
That you loved me so much
Even during the times
That I made it so tough...
For all of the memories
We have already shared
For the future for which
We cannot be prepared
For being there for that one-year-old boy
Who sat in the house and sucked on his thumb
For working so hard at being his mom
And making that boy into the man I've become
Look back on all that we have been through
And look at me now mom, how far I have come
For all of the times I'll never forget
Merry Christmas to you, Mom
Here's to the memories
We haven't had yet

Santa, do you know where heaven is?
Maybe your reindeer know the way.
For I have a special present
I need delivered on Christmas day.
For Christmas is a time for sharing
With those we hold so dear.
Please take this gift, with all my love
For an angel who's no longer here.
It's wrapped up in all our memories
We once shared from the past.
The ribbons and bows are all our dreams.
Inside there's a broken heart.
It's such a special parcel.
Please Santa, don't delay.
I would love it to be in heaven
In time for Christmas day.

It's Christmas time,
And I wish you well.
May the Lord bless you
With the best of health.
I hope the stockings are hung
And you're filled with wonder.
There are so many surprises
For you to ponder.
May your children be merry
When Santa brings toys.
Some for the girls
And some for the boys.
I pray you have food
And plenty to eat:
Turkey and gravy
And lots of sweets.
I hope your family's there,
Friends and neighbors, too.
So merry Christmas
From all of us to all of you.

At Christmas, lights burn brighter,
and friendly hugs get even tighter.
The spirit of Christmas fills the air,
and people seem to really care.
Merry hearts are filled with cheer.
Families and friends all draw near.
The streets around are all filled
despite the cold winter chill.
Everywhere there's smiling faces,
giving and receiving warm embraces.
And for a time, sadness disappear.
Peace, joy and hope replaces fear.
All because God's love came down
and filled the earth all around.
So we celebrate at Christmas time
our Savior and Lord, holy, divine!
We honor Jesus throughout the year
so the Christmas spirit will linger near.
For the story of His birth is ours to tell -
that Jesus became our Emmanuel!

May peace dwell with you,
may prosperity huddle near.
May family gather together
without heartache or tear.
There is a star shining
in the night sky ... just there.
It is for you to wish upon
to keep you safe from care.
May everything you need
be yours to have and proclaim
as you're due                        ; just close your eyes
and ask it in His precious name.
Merry Christmas to you, friend.
Let your season be a blessed one
filled with love and cheer and more.
Smile, laugh, and enjoy the fun.

I wish I could go back to the past,
of Christmases long ago.
I wish I could see my loved ones
who have passed on long ago.
I'd love to be that child again
who sat on Santa's knee.
Yes, all these memories that I have
decorating the tree.
I wish I could wake Christmas morn
to see Daddy baking ham.
And to see my mamma making her yummy
famous candy yams.
I wish I could go to Grandma's house    ;
her cookies were the best.
The pies and cakes that she would bake,
she kept them in a chest.
Her house would smell like ginger,
with a hint of Balsam Pine.
She'd decorate the house with lights,
and it would surely shine.
All these Christmas memories,
it seems like yesteryear.
I'd love to go back to the past.
This is my Christmas prayer.

The littlest Christmas tree
lived in a meadow of green
among a family
of tall evergreens.
He learned how to whisper
the evergreen song
with the slightest of wind
that came gently along.
He watched as the birds
made a home out of twigs
and couldn't wait till
he, too, was big.
For all of the trees
offered a home,
the maple, the pine, and the oak,
who's so strong.
"I hate being little,"
the little tree said,
"I can't even turn colors
like the maple turns red.
I can't help the animals
like the mighty old oak.
He shelters them all
in his wide mighty cloak."
The older tree said,
"Why, little tree, you don't know?
The story of a mighty king
from the land with no snow?"
Little tree questioned,
"A land with no snow?"
"Yes!" said old tree,
"A very old story,
from so long ago."
"A star appeared,
giving great light
over a manger
on long winter's night.
A baby was born,
a king of all kings,
and with him comes love
over all things."
"He lived in a country
all covered in sand,
and laid down his life
to save all of man."
Little tree thought of the gift
given by him,
then the big tree said with the
happiest grin,
"We're not just trees,
but a reminder of that day.
There's a much bigger part
of a role that we play!"
"For on Christmas Eve,
my life I'll lay down,
in exchange for a happier,
loving ground.
And as I stand dying,
they'll adorn me in trim.
This all will be done
in memory of him."
"Among a warm fire,
with family and friends,
in the sweet songs of Christmas,
I'll find my great end.
Then ever so gently,
He'll come down to see
and take me to heaven,
Jesus and me."
"So you see, little tree,
we are not like the oak
who shelters all things
beneath his great cloak.
Nor are we like the maple
in fall,
whose colors leave many
standing in awe."
"The gift that we give
is ourselves, limb for limb,
the greatest of honor,
in memory of him."
The little tree bowed
his head down and cried
and thought of the king
who willingly died.
For what kind of gift
can anyone give
than to lay down your life
when you wanted to live?
A swelling of pride
came over the tree.
Can all of this happen
Because of just me?
Can I really bring honor?
By adorning a home?
By reminding mankind
that he's never alone?
With this thought, little tree
began singing with glee.
Happy and proud
to be a true Christmas tree.
You can still hear them singing
even the smallest in height,
singing of Christmas
and that one holy night.

Christmas time is almost here
As the snow falls gently to the ground
Families will come together far and near
Children bundled up in their warm winter gear
Ready to build snowmen fluffy and round
Christmas time is almost here
Elf and Home Alone making you laugh in tears
With your most loved ones around
Families will come together far and near
With the tree shining bright and clear
And Jingle Bells playing in the background
Christmas time is almost here
Mom's special cooking will soon appear
And so will those few extra pounds
Families will come together far and near
With grandma's hot chocolate we cheer
For the time we've been waiting for so profound
Christmas time is almost here
Families will come together far and near

I heard the bells on Christmas Day
Their old, familiar carols play,
And wild and sweet
The words repeat
Of peace on earth, good-will to men!
And thought how, as the day had come,
The belfries of all Christendom
Had rolled along
The unbroken song
Of peace on earth, good-will to men!
Till ringing, singing on its way,
The world revolved from night to day,
A voice, a chime,
A chant sublime
Of peace on earth, good-will to men!
Then from each black, accursed mouth
The cannon thundered in the South,
And with the sound
The carols drowned
Of peace on earth, good-will to men!
It was as if an earthquake rent
The hearth-stones of a continent,
And made forlorn
The households born
Of peace on earth, good-will to men!
And in despair I bowed my head            ;
"There is no peace on earth," I said      ;
For hate is strong,
And mocks the song
Of peace on earth, good-will to men!"
Then pealed the bells more loud and deep:
"God is not dead, nor doth He sleep       ;
The Wrong shall fail,
The Right prevail,
With peace on earth, good-will to men."

Christmas time is finally here.
It only comes but once a year,
And it's a time to spread good cheer
To those we love and hold so dear.
Christmas time is a time of glee,
A time when peace and love run free,
A time for those like you and me
To sit beneath the Christmas tree.
Christmas time is a time of joy,
A time to sit back and enjoy
The smile on each girl and boy,
As they play with a Christmas toy.
Christmas time is a time to share
The passing of another year.
Birth of Jesus, a joyful prayer,
To show loved ones how much we care.
Christmas time is a time for song,
A time for us to get along,
To make us feel Lord Jesus strong,
Forgive all those who did us wrong.
Christmas time is a time to pray,
Put love and kindness on display,
Show compassion along the way.
Christmas time should be every day.

O Christmas tree, O Christmas tree,
You truly are a beauty.
I used to love to put you up,
Now it's a dreaded duty.
Lugging you out from storage
Gets more strenuous each year,
And assembling all your branchy parts
Does not fill me with cheer.
Then each and every little stem
I tediously unflatten.
Your artificial symmetry,
It doesn't...just...happen.
Next challenge is your tree lights,
Which I always have to wrangle.
No matter how I've coiled them,
They unwind in a tangle.
A few choice words escape me
As I clear the final knot,
Then turn to find the other end
Has formed another clot.
I string them from your branches,
Draping with the greatest care,
To find that I've run out of lights,
Your bottom third still bare.
After some more botched attempts
They're artfully arranged.
Your lights are nice and even
Though I'm feeling quite deranged.
These days the decorating
Doesn't hold the same appeal.
Now that the kids are all grown up,
It's left for me to deal.
I miss the days when they were young,
We'd trim your boughs together.
With Christmas carols playing,
They are memories I treasure.
Your ornaments now look just right
From every viewing angle,
But at your back against the wall,
The not so nice ones dangle.
At long last the job is done.
It's taken me all day                 ;
Too worn out to appreciate
Your beautiful display.
On Christmas Day you play your part,
All twinkling in resplendence,
With family all gathered round
And opening their presents.
O Christmas tree, O Christmas tree,
A sight extraordinary                 ;
Must steel myself to pack you up,
It's almost February!

Well, it is December, and Christmas is almost here
Another happy Christmas for family and good cheer
There will be tables loaded with turkeys, hams and sweets
We know there will be more than we could ever eat
There will be a big tree shining so bright
With beautiful decorations and pretty shiny lights
Under that tree there will be presents galore
So many you would wonder how there could be anything left in the store
Christmas now is really so much fun
But gosh there is just too much for everyone
My thoughts go back to a cold Christmas long ago
To a family not blessed with riches and gold
Our little tree was kind of skimpy, with some ribbons and a few shiny balls
But to us it stood magnificent, the greatest of them all
Under that tree was a present for Raye, a present for Sister and a present for me
And we could hardly wait as we would open them with glee
There was not a lot of fancy food on that table, times were kind of tough
But we were all happy, and for us it was enough
We were so thankful as we thanked the Lord above
We knew what we had was paid for with Daddy's hard work and Mama's love
I'm thankful that we now have so much and our blessings are many
And it is good to live in this great land of plenty
But I would gladly give every material thing that I own
To have one more Christmas with Mama and Daddy and my two sisters at home

We sate among the stalls at Bethlehem               ;
The dumb kine from their fodder turning them,
Softened their horned faces
To almost human gazes
Toward the newly Born:
The simple shepherds from the star-lit brooks
Brought their visionary looks,
As yet in their astonied hearing rung
The strange sweet angel-tongue:
The magi of the East, in sandals worn,
Knelt reverent, sweeping round,
With long pale beards, their gifts upon the ground,
The incense, myrrh, and gold
These baby hands were impotent to hold:
So let all earthlies and celestials wait
Upon thy royal state.
Sleep, sleep, my kingly One!

Have you observed this Christmas thing?
How shoppers shop and sleigh bells ring,
And children wrapped in muffs and cuffs
Are trying out their newfound stuff.
Have you observed how fast it comes,
Overtakes, invades our homes?
How life takes on that quickened pace
That makes each day another race.
But have you noticed how the rush
Is stayed with times of holy hush?
And no one ever seems to know
From where they come or where they go.
A pause upon a Christmas stage,
A costumed, bearded ancient sage,
Points to a distant tinseled sky,
And all at once the Christ is nigh.
Or at a time when by the tree
The children watch so eagerly,
As shining bells are put in place
And wonder fills each tiny face.
Or by the fire when children sleep
And parents whisper so to keep,
The stillness of the fading day
As treasures in their hearts to stay.
Or when amidst the candlelight
The choir begins, "Oh, Holy Night,"
And lives so filled with busyness
Are wafted to a quiet bliss.
So as the season comes your way
For you and yours, we humbly pray
That in this time of Christmas rush
You will find that holy hush.

Prayers and songs sung
To praise His holy name
A nativity scene began
The scene we've come to claim
He lay cradled in his mother's arms
She gazed into his face
Tiny baby born
To save the human race
Shepherds came to see
Born in a filthy cattle shed
A manger he lay swaddled
Straw for his tender head
From the womb to the tomb
He came to walk the land
Cobbled streets and hilltops
Led by His Father's hand
So very precious is the gift
More than frankincense, myrrh, and gold
Lasting through eternity's days
God's glory to behold

A long time ago, down Bethlehem way,
A star shown in the night sky as bright as the day.
The shepherds were watching their flocks with care
When a host of angels appeared in the air,
Proclaiming the son of God had been born
To deliver our souls on that cold Christmas morn.
You will find him wrapped in swaddling clothes,
Lying in a manger while the cattle lows.
A few short decades later, he died on a cross.
Without his sacrifice, we would all be lost.
So as you're running around, buying gifts and treats
To have a big party when your family meets,
Stop and remember why we celebrate this day,
It's not about gifts and food and games to play.
I think of that                                        ; we all have enough.
When you think about it, it's all just stuff.
The gift of love is what Jesus gave,
And salvation the day he arose from the grave.
To love each other is all that he asks.
I know that at times that can be a big task.
Just humble yourself and look all around.
I think what you find will be profound.
There are many who can only afford the gift of love.
No presents, no tree with a star up above.
Look into your life, and you will find you are blessed
By many who love you                                   ; that gift is the best.
So when it comes time to bless your meal,
Ask for your family to be blessed as well.
Not with gifts or money or material stuff,
but that love and tolerance will be enough.
Remember the loved ones who cannot be there,
But rejoice they're in heaven and not suffering here.
And when you see someone who is down and out,
Don't put them down or have any doubt.
Just do what you think Jesus would do.
Give what you can to help them get through.
If they misuse it, that's between them and God.
In Jesus' eyes you have done your job.
God bless you and enjoy your family Christmas day,
May peace, love, and happiness come your way.

Christmas is a happy time for friends and family,
The children are excited as they unwrap presents around the tree.
Carols are sung and lights twinkle in the night.
Jack Frost glistens on the windows, and the snow sparkles from the winter moonlight.
Christmas is such a joyous time to appreciate the ones we love.
This Christmas I want to send wishes to those we lost up above.
To some, Christmas is not the same because a loved one passed away,
And the grief is overwhelming each and every day.
When the holidays approach, we miss them even more,
Traditions never feel the same, and memories are all we have left to adore.
We will always remember their name and never forget their faces,
And as long as we keep them in our hearts, they can never be erased.
So this Christmas, my wish is for everyone who is feeling a little blue
To find some peace, joy, and comfort with everything you do.
Christmas isn't just a season; it's a feeling, and the magic never ends.
One of its greatest gifts is to cherish family and friends.
Merry Christmas to all our special angels up above.
Merry Christmas to you all. I send you all my love.

Lying down on the ground
In the cold, fluffy snow
Forcing angels to stay on the earth
I was afraid to be left alone
So I fell, I fell so deep
Like snow that's falling again
It's Christmas, it's Christmas again
But not for me, not without you
Tonight my heart was frozen cold
It was dark and soullessly true
Stars falling down as I made a wish
Hoping for you to catch me at once
So I fell, I fell so deep
Like snow that's falling again
It's Christmas, it's Christmas again
But not for me, not without you

Five more days till Christmas.
Santa and his crew
were working overtime making
children's dreams come true.
Singing carols, whistling tunes,
as the hours ticked away,
except for little Edison,
the elf that went astray.
Instead of making toys
in Santa's assembly line,
he was hanging out with Rudolph
beneath the snow capped pines.
As Mr. and Mrs. Santa Claus took
a look around,
they noticed lazy Edison
was nowhere to be found.
They decided they'd had enough       ;
this elf will surely be fired.
Scratched their heads and
realized another must be hired.
Dasher heard them talking
and thought this can't be so.
Never in elf's history has
someone had to go.
He searched the winter wonderland,
and under the Northern Lights
Edison and Rudolph were
frolicking in flight.
He said, "Come down from there       ;
your behavior's a disgrace.
Christmas Eve is almost here and
you're about to be replaced."
Edison soon realized his days
of slacking were done,
that there'd be consequences
for goofing off and having fun.
He knew he had no place to go
if Santa didn't let him stay.
His heart began to pound
as Rudolph ran away.
He hurried as fast as he could
to tell Santa he was wrong,
beg him for forgiveness
and show him he belonged.
As the other elves were caroling,
he tried to sneak inside,
but Santa saw him coming out of the
corner of his eye.
He placed his hands upon his hips
and firmly shook his head,
"What shall I do with you,
my elf?" Santa firmly said.
"I see you when you're sleeping.
I know when you're awake.
Did you not read your history book?"
he said for goodness sake!
Santa soon forgave him 'cause
his heart is made of gold,
and Edison became the
hardest worker I am told.
The moral of this story is
we all must do our part,
and jolly old St. Nick has always
had a heart.
Merry Christmas to all of you
on this holiest of days.
May all your dreams come true
as you gather and celebrate.

A squeak on the stairs.
Could Santa be here?
Better pull my blankets
Up to my ears.
He comes down the chimney,
That's how he gets in.
Santa uses magic
To make himself thin.
I better keep still,
Can't make a peep.
He doesn't leave toys,
Unless you're asleep.
My door just opened.
Someone's by my bed.
It wasn't Santa after all,
'Cause Mom just kissed my head.

October's old witches and goblins have gone
The turkey and stuffing are done
The wind brings a chill as December arrives
The tree lights all twinkle as one
The icicles hang from the roof-tops in town
As the rain and the snow starts to fall
The storefronts light up with Christmas displays
And Santa arrives at the mall
As presents are bought and presents are wrapped
For those that we love and adore
A small child's eyes, so young but so wise
Wants one more trip to the store
The video game, the doll or the train
Santa must know I've been good
I'll stay up all night, and help him unload
And get all the gifts that I should
Yes, Christmas is here, the laughter and joy
And all that goes with it, you see
But when it is gone, our friendship goes on
You make every day Christmas for me...

Oh, to capture Christmas
In the palm of one's hand                         ;
To clasp, like a jeweled strand,
Every memory dear and grand.
To cherish and remember
Every cold, colorful December                     ;
The cheery topaz embers
Of a lazy Christmas Eve.
Mother and brother trimming the tree
In diamond and emerald symmetry,
While father prepares his special tea.
And I at the spinet, the tinkling gem-like tones,
Harmonizing with my own voice
And the winter's gusty moans.
The choirs, the carols,
The crystal-voiced heralds
Announcing the sapphire dawn                      ;
The untidy wrappings,
The candies, the mince,
The parent's enveloping yawns.
Christmas with my family,
So dear, so long ago                              ;
May the old times, like a garnet,
In my memory ever glow.

Invited to the manger with the shepherds and the sheep
to visit, to behold, to glory, to believe.
The Savior is born for the nations and for me!
But what gift might I bring?
Is there anything of value I have that He might need?
I hear the little drummer boy drum, drum, drum his beat.
Mary sings a lullaby, and the baby goes to sleep.
Is there something I can give he might want to keep?
This is all I have: my life, my words, my poetry.
Invited with the nations, the shepherds, and the sheep
to adore, to abide, to behold, to believe,
invited as a welcome guest to visit the King of Kings!

I went to church on Christmas morn to hear the angels sing.
My heart was lifted with every chorus                                     ; the rafters, they did ring.
I sang along with joy in my heart, the greatest sound I've ever heard.
From "O Holy Night" to "What Child is This?" I cherished every word.
I celebrated the King's lowly birth                                       ; I shouted and danced about.
Then came along a "Little Drummer Boy," and I knew I was without.
What had I given the babe this year? A panic crossed my mind.
I tried to think of what I had given, but there was none to find.
Did I find a child and clothe him well? Did I seek a widow to bless?
Did I go to someone sick in their bed and try to ease their death?
Did I ask a sinner to say a prayer or tell him the Good News?
Did I give a beggar something to eat or at least buy him some shoes?
I bowed my head as the drummer boy played                                 ; my tears started to fall.
I didn't even give Him my best, let alone give Him my all.
So this Christmas, Jesus, I bring you my drum, the very beat of my heart.
I ask Your forgiveness, for things undone                                 ; it's the only place I can start.

Baby Jesus, child of love,
born of Mary, child of God,
born this night to bring us light,
God with us, Emmanuel.
Bells ring out, a child is born.
Angels sing out, "Christ the Lord!"
All on Earth rejoice His birth,
a Child of love, the Promised One.
Hope was born this silent night,
dark no more, eternal light.
He came to bring us saving grace,
a child of love, the Holy One.
Word made flesh this holy night,
Living Promise, Lord Divine.
Bringing peace, goodwill to men,
a child of love, the Chosen One.
Born this night, this sacred night
Jesus Christ, the Lord Most High,
came to save and show the way,
a Child of love, the Son of God.

Do you feel the joy when silver bells are ringing
and when you hear the voices of Christmas carolers singing?
Do you feel in awe of the night sky's brightest star,
and feel the blessing that Christmas brings deep inside your heart?
Do you feel excited when trimming the Christmas tree,
and when the gifts are placed beneath and feeling a sense of glee?
Do you feel the bliss from mistletoe hanging above
when you get a Christmas kiss from someone you love?
Do you feel a calmness hanging a wreath upon the door,
and hope the feeling of Christmas will remain forevermore?
Do you feel the warmth of a yuletide log that's burning,
and feel the spirit of Christmas with every season's greeting?
Do you feel the peacefulness of a gentle falling snow,
and feel the love of Christmas in your heart and in your soul?
Do you feel inspired when carols are being sung,
and do you feel happiness when stockings are being hung?
Do you feel the kindness of people in their sharing,
and feel the excitement of the season when wrapping gifts you're giving?
Do you feel the comfort of sharing dinner with Christmas treats,
and feel the goodness of family and friends as you pray and eat?
Do you feel the serenity from the glow of Christmas candles,
and feel the miracle of Christmas from the Nativity on the mantle?
Do you feel the Christmas goodwill from a giving heart this season,
and do you feel peace and joy knowing Jesus is the reason?

Since you're gone, Christmas time will never be the same.
When asked what I wish for, I can only speak your name.
The only gift I ever want at Christmas time for me
Is my precious, loving son beside my Christmas tree,
And as the world rejoices with songs of Christmas cheer,
I'll gently hold your memories close and wipe my Christmas tear.
So lucky are the angels to have you up above,
Right beside their Christmas tree                                ; my son's their gift to love!

'Tis the season for warmth and cheer,
To be with our family and those we hold dear.
But what if we are miles away?
What if we can't be there on Christmas day?
We could send a beautiful Christmas card,
A glittery ornament that shines like a star,
A tin of cookies so warm and sweet,
But there's only one gift that makes it complete.
It's sent through the snowflakes in the air,
Through an angel's peaceful and heavenly prayer,
Through the verdant Christmas tree,
Through the Holy Babe, sleeping peacefully.
This gift is magical in every way.
It only comes on Christmas day.
It's what makes us truly rich                     ;
A heartfelt, loving Christmas wish.
It's bright and big like the Bethlehem star.
It stretches wide and travels far.
It's the first snow of Christmas day.
It's the sun's warm and hopeful ray.
This precious gift I gladly send.
It's a Christmas wish to my family and friends:
May love, peace, and joy in your lives stay,
And may you have a Merry Christmas - always!

Today is born sweet Jesus, the Lord.
Let us be glad, let us rejoice.
Today is born sweet Jesus, the Lord.
Let us be glad, let us rejoice.
Sweet Jesus is born, great joy does He bring.
Let trumpets sound and church bells ring.
The gifts He brings this holy night
are peace, hope, and joy, and love's pure light.
Quiet your heart and hear the Lord's name.
Sweet Jesus the Lord, this night He came.
He came to be with us on Earth.
The Heavens and Earth rejoice His birth.
Sweet Jesus is born. His birth was foretold.
God's only Son is to behold.
On bended knee we come to adore
Sweet baby Jesus, Christ the Lord.
Love is the heart of Jesus the Lord.
His birth opened up God's heavenly door.
The joy and hope that sweet Jesus brings
will live in the hearts of those who believe.

It is seven a.m.,
And the snow is falling
As I look outside
At the carolers calling.
I wake up my parents
And rush to the tree
To find a room full of presents
Just for me.
The hot chocolate is stirring,
And the food is being made
As we head to my grandma's
To visit and stay.
As I see my family gathered
And laughing away,
I think to myself,
How I love Christmas Day.

It's not all about presents
Laying under the tree.
Trinkets made of gold
Mean nothing to me.
It's not all about money.
What joy can it bring?
It's being wanted and loved,
Not material things.
Possessions can't hug you
Or give you a kiss.
Christmas with loved ones
Is what I miss.
Christmas presents are just temporary.
Their joy is short lived.
Only love and loved ones
Are the greatest of gifts.

I found a little Christmas card.
‘Twas in a box of stuff.
I opened it and read it.
Its verse was written thus.
"Season's greetings and salutations.
Best wishes and all the best.
Happy New Year and live long,
And may you be God blessed."
There was something written
Below this little verse.
It was written in your writing,
Just like we would converse.
I felt the love in those words
Written by your shaky hand.
Tears filled my eyes,
As you can understand.
I love that little Christmas card.
My heart strings are all a strum.
That little card means so much
Because it's signed, "Love, Mum."

May the grace of Christ bring you hope and joy,
and may the peace of Christ be yours.
May Jesus, the Lord, the miracle of God,
fill your heart with Christmas love.
May you hear the songs of the angels this morn'.
May you feel the joy that Jesus Christ is born.
May the beauty of Christmas surround you today.
May you find joy this Christmas Day.
May you thank the Lord for the hope that He brings.
May you know the love of Jesus Christ, the King.
May you always believe that Christ came to save.
May you find hope this Christmas Day.
May the peace of Christmas bring joy with no end.
May you feel the love of family and friends.
May the wonder of Christmas surround you today.
May you feel peace this Christmas Day.
May you share this day with our Jesus in prayer.
May you share this day and show all you care.
May you gather together with loved ones this day.
May you find Christ this Christmas Day.

Three wise men followed
Yonder star that starry night
Shepherds watched their flocks
Angles sang with delight
Laying in a manger
In swaddling cloth was wrapped
His mother gazed into His face
Whilst her baby napped
Born in a filthy cattle shed
Cattle gently lowing
Yonder star light lit the scene
The world was not yet knowing
Gifts brought to adorn
Frankincense, myrrh and gold
Began the very essence
Of the greatest story ever told
Unfurled His life would be
At His Father's plan
Opening the world to truth
For His endless love of man
He came to work amongst us
Born from the nativity
He gave the greatest gift
His life for eternity

Mama told me a story a long, long time ago, not like any that I'd ever heard,
all about a little girl mama used to know, how I remember every word.
Seems like a lifetime ago, though I remember it so well.
It was a Christmas Eve I'll never forget as far as I can tell.
We were sitting at the kitchen table, it was only my mother and me.
I was dreaming of Christmas morning and all the presents under the tree.
Dad wasn't doing that well and money was scarce that year.
Mama found a way of telling me without me shedding one tear.
She told me a story of a little girl and a Christmas long ago,
who came from far away, a place where it rarely snowed.
Santa was just a dream to her, but she believed so much inside,
that Christmas was going to be special, so she knelt by her bed and she cried.
"Lord, let Santa remember me if not just this one time.
I promise I won't ask for much, maybe a dolly I can call all mine."
She closed her prayer and thanked the Lord for all that she received.
She knew that Santa would really come if only she believed.
She wrote a letter to Santa, unfamiliar to most girls and boys.
Though her list was long and full, on it there were no toys.
Only things we take for granted, like new shoes or underpants,
hair bows for her sisters and gloves to warm her brothers' hands.
At the bottom of her list she asked, if it not be too much,
for a brand new baby doll she could hold and love and touch.
Then Christmas morning came and she looked beneath her tree,
Not a present to be found as far as she could see.
She didn't give up hope as she heard a knocking sound.
When she opened up her door, a great big box she found.
She called out to her mother and dad, brothers and sisters too,
She said, "My prayers were answered, there's something in here for all of you."
Her daddy got brand new boots, her mother new underpants, her sisters got beautiful hair bows, her brothers warm gloves for their hands.
Buried deep beneath the box was a brand new baby doll and a note that said, "Merry Christmas, I love you one and all."
I'll never forget that story because much to my surprise,
I saw the true meaning of Christmas shining in my mother's eyes.
For those of you who are wondering, as if you didn't know,
The little girl in Mama's story was my mother long ago.
This poem is about a childhood memory I will never forget. God bless all the mothers in this world, and may all your Christmases be ones to remember.

Silent soft snow descends.
Lights reflect into the night.
The world seems to wait,
Hushed before Christmas's delight.
The days creep gradually shorter.
Children feel the magic grow.
Oh when will Christ's birth come?
"Soon," whispers the silent snow.
Cookies baked, trees trimmed.
The world builds anticipation,
Yet the manger is missing the Christ,
The Source of this festive sensation.
Coloured lights keep vigil.
Garlands and trees emerge.
Cards get mailed to kin.
"Come Christmas," children urge.
Then one night, the 25th,
A bell, a soft bell rang.
Then angels came and proclaimed
Christ is born, they sang!
The people sitting in darkness
Heard the joyful song.
They rang their bells and rejoiced.
Come, let's sing along!
Now, in this Christmas season
May Christ's joy rest every fear,
And may your heart grow younger
In the coming New Year!

Imagine waking up to that cool winter air
to see snow drifting and falling into your hair.
To build snowmen and snow angels and get into snowball fights,
and to snuggle in front of the fire that cool Christmas Eve night.
Imagine waking up to the hot chocolate and tea                                ;
the sweet aroma of cookies and baked goods fill you up with glee.
Drinking and singing merrily, surrounded by family and friends,
sipping on that chilled eggnog, hoping the night won't end.
Imagine waking up to the sounds of children's laughter
as they sneak downstairs to get a good look at jolly Old Santa,
only to find their parents standing underneath the mistletoe,
sharing a sweet and gentle kiss and holding each other close.
Imagine the way you look when Christmas morn is finally here,
with shiny gifts in shiny gift paper, teasing of the gifts they bear.
As children rip into their presents, clothes, toys and gifts scattered around
you could hear the carolers singing their lovely and beautiful sound.
Christmas is for family, happiness and smiles,
Things that make the Christmas last all year round.
Christmas is for the laughter, cheers and the songs,
As we sing, dance, drink, and eat all night long!

Christmas is a time when everyone gathers together
To share love and bring hope of a light that will last forever.
At a time like this, there's no such thing as being alone.
When you're with the ones you love, you'll then learn to grow.
Nothing can be more comforting than the love you share.
Your family should tell you there is someone who always cares.
Everyone is entitled to abundant joy and happiness
Because this blessing is a Christmas gift you should never forget.
As long as you're surrounded with those who love you,
We should not despise each other, for love is the ultimate truth.
If Jesus Himself said to help and love one another,
Then we need to form a fellowship and be there for each other.
This season, we should be able to put aside our differences
And stop choosing whom to love based on preferences.
Love should be beyond words this time of year,
And forevermore, bringing songs of glorious cheers.
May this Christmas be a time of good will,
Because love is a mission we all need to fulfill.
Let our friendships and relationships have Christ in the center.
Let this holiday season be a time of worship and prayer.
Christmas should be about giving and enjoying the good times.
It may come once a year, but its impact should never die.
Let's not lose hope of what Christmas should come to be.
Jesus came to love, and so should we.

Christmas Past, Present & Future....
Present
Each morning as I lie awake,
I pray my soul the Lord to take.
For memories are far too deep
to pray the Lord my soul to keep.
Good memories when you were here
to fill us all with Christmas cheer,
but God above was all alone
and took you for his very own.
And though we know that you are near,
each Christmas we are filled with fear.
How will we cope without you there?
We're left staring at an empty chair.
Past
But cope we do - we all survive
We remember when you were alive,
knelt down by the glistening tree,
shaking presents trying to see.
On Christmas morn you'd wake to find
those presents Santa left behind.
These memories all bring a tear
for you held Christmas time so dear.
Future
And now five Christmases unwind.
Our memories are all enshrined,
for in our hearts you'll always be
until God comes to set us free.
Then we can be together again.
Forget heartache - forget the pain,
but now until our time is due,
Merry Christmas, we love you!

The kings they came from out the south,
All dressed in ermine fine                ;
They bore Him gold and chrysoprase,
And gifts of precious wine.
The shepherds came from out the north,
Their coats were brown and old            ;
They brought Him little new-born lambs—
They had not any gold.
The wise men came from out the east,
And they were wrapped in white            ;
The star that led them all the way
Did glorify the night.
The angels came from heaven high,
And they were clad with wings             ;
And lo, they brought a joyful song
The host of heaven sings.
The kings they knocked upon the door,
The wise men entered in,
The shepherds followed after them
To hear the song begin.
The angels sang through all the night
Until the rising sun,
But little Jesus fell asleep
Before the song was done.

Christmas, a time of wonder and joy,
A time to celebrate the birth of a baby boy.
A child innocent and true,
A child sent as a gift to save me and you.
This wondrous story has reached all corners of this globe.
A king is born but one who doesn't wear a royal robe.
He will grow to teach and to love.
He will spread the word of his father above.
His gentle ways and his touch will turn water to wine.
This newborn child is wondrous and divine.
His word will be placed in a book for all to read.
His words will help heal all those who are in need.
This is the gift, no price to ever be given,
And even after death he will be risen.
His cries can be heard by all living things.
This beautiful baby will grow to be king.

If I had one Christmas wish
For family and friends this year,
We would take the opportunity to strengthen values and beliefs
We hold so dear.
We would make time to sit at the table,
Break bread with those we love,
Fold our hands and bow our head,
Giving thanks to our Father above.
Read a book to the children,
Try to make the moments last.
Talk to them about family traditions,
Connecting with members of family past.
We would indulge in enjoyable stories,
Talk about our role models that paved the way,
Take comfort in the traditions that bring us together,
Creating a lasting bond, forever and a day.

Mary was chosen                                        ; how could this be true?
A young girl and virgin was who they all knew.
Cousin Elizabeth, too, six months was she.
Her son was John, a "forerunner" he would be,
Lept in her womb when the news was told.
The King Mary carried they would all soon behold.
Not in a great palace but a stable he'd lay.
Not on fine linens but a manger with hay.
An angel told shepherds the glad news they'd sing,
A star led the Wise Men, their gifts they would bring.
When he heard of the birth, King Herod would seek,
But God up above Jesus' safety would keep
So that you and I could know His great love,
And one day be with Him in Heaven above.
So remember that Christmas is not "going all out."
It's a season of miracles...THAT'S what it's about.

A great Light has dawned -
For all mankind tonight.
Over a humble, old stable,
The Christ star shines bright.
Inside, Mary is resting           ;
Her eyes wide with wonder.
She's got so many questions       ;
So much to ponder.
Though still a chaste virgin,
She has just given birth.
To her it has happened,
As foretold in God's Word.
In her arms she is cradling
Her little miracle, Jesus         ;
God’s most precious gift ever -
A Savior, born to redeem us.
He came into this world
To answer His Father’s call.
Mary can hardly fathom
The meaning of it all.
This child, the Messiah,
Israel's long awaited King        ;
Fruit of the Holy Spirit -
What will His future bring?
On His young shoulders rest
Such high expectations:
He’s to usher in God's Kingdom
And to save all the nations.
As she looks at baby Jesus,
Mary offers a prayer              ;
To thank the Most High
That she is so well-favored.
Jesus is fast asleep              ;
He's so innocent and sweet.
She strokes His tiny head,
And tickles His tiny feet.
It makes her smile                ;
The way He puckers His lips.
Mary wants to hold Him -
Forever like this.
He has His mother's eyes,
Her beautiful baby boy.
Mary's heart fills with love      ;
She's overwhelmed with joy.
She's just a simple girl,
And those thoughts are deep...
For now, she's content -
Watching the future King sleep.

He’s coming! He’s coming!
Santa Claus is on his sleigh!
He’s coming! He’s coming!
Magic reindeer – up and away!
He’s suited, he’s booted,
Snow-white bearded, dressed in red,
He’s coming, he’s coming!
Quick now, children, go to bed!
He’s landed! He’s landed!
Reindeer hooves upon the tiles!
He’s landed! He’s landed!
Bringing gifts and lots of smiles!

December is here and there's ice all around.
All the leaves are gone and the soil has hardened on the ground.
Icy breath as you exhale,
Waiting for wrapped parcels to be delivered in the mail.
Baubles and tinsel and candy canes,
Snow now settling on the window panes.
Trees all a glitter as we pass by.
Hot cups of chocolate and homemade mince pie.
Smells of puddings, cakes and all things good,
Crackling fires as we burn more wood.
Carols heard from across the park.
Lights all glistening as they brighten up the dark.
Families gather to spend this day as one,
Hugging, talking, putting right all that's wrong.
But much more than all of this above,
This is a time for forgiveness and love.
It's Christmas and a time of joy.
It's the birthday of a special baby boy.
It's about a story that's lasted throughout the ages of time,
About a man who turned water into wine.
He helped and he protected all in need,
And the poorly he healed and the hungry he did feed.
A gift above gifts, for all of mankind.
So perfect, so gentle, so divine.
A time to celebrate on the 25th of December.
A time to be grateful and a time to remember.
With thanks and gifts they did bring.
It's time once again to rejoice the birth of a king.

I wish for my lost loved ones to spread wings
So they'd fly back and share all Christmas things,
Just as they did back in their days on earth
And the holy birth was a source of great mirth.
Then they'd see snowflakes fall softly to the ground,
Hear carol singers make beautiful sounds.
Children excited for Santa to arrive,
Christmas trees aglow and blazing firesides.
Church bells chiming to announce the new King,
Born as a host of Angel voices sing.
In humble conditions came Mary's boy.
Unto the world a sweet bundle of joy.
Thoughtful tokens handed out as a gift.
Times may have been hard, but love made us rich.
Games and charades when there was no TV.
Fish paste sandwiches and jelly for tea.
But it's unlikely my wishes come true.
I'll send love in a prayer, I usually do,
And ask God to share my heart all around
For peace on earth that knoweth no bounds.

Across a white December night,
Each home is filled with candle light.
The moon shines brightly in a golden sky.
Stars are twinkling way up high.
The cool, still air, a glistening frost,
Smoking chimneys on white rooftops.
The Christmas tree, the mistletoe,
Christmas carols, our loved ones at home.
Christmas is a time for merriment and cheer.
It's also a time to thank God we're here.
So when we wake on a bright Christmas morn,
Remember the reason we celebrate.
It's the day our Saviour was born.

My childhood Christmas memories always make me smile.
I'll often drift to long ago and stay there for a while.
Remember singing carols long before the date?
Of counting days from Halloween, I really couldn't wait.
Recalling cherished carefree times that advent used to bring.
The infant class nativity, the songs we used to sing.
The being good, the secret smiles when making Christmas wishes,
The showing off to Santa by drying up the dishes.
"Eat your food, the elves are watching" was often said to me,
And though I'd quickly turn my head I never got to see,
And it always snowed at Christmas, least that's what I recall.
Standing by the fireside glow, watching the snowflakes fall,
I well recall the bustling shops, not frenzied like today.
The kindly smiles and gestures that set you on your way,
I crave the smells, and seasonal sights, the tastes that were sublime,
The long gone folk who touched our lives so much at Christmas time.
The sleepless nights on Christmas Eve, a mix of joy and fear,
While listening out for Santa Claus (I heard him every year),
And sleep might come eventually, though fitful if at all.
Then up I'd jump on Christmas Day, the greatest time of all,
Waking up the family to see if he had been,
Closing eyes and walking in to see the festive scene,
Running to a pile of gifts, "I can't believe my eyes."
"How did you know I wanted that?" and "What a great surprise!"
And then one year the magic did not seem to be as strong.
To believe in Father Christmas was childish and quite wrong,
So I never heard his sleigh bells on Christmas Eve again,
Nor saw snow at Christmas, just wind and sleet and rain.
And so it was for many years, my childhood Christmas gone.
Grown up responsibilities was the order from now on,
Until that is the greatest gift, a child to call my own.
Her Christmas Eve excitement by me was so well-known,
And as I kissed her goodnight last year and closed the door,
I swear I heard his sleigh bells upon the roof once more.

Christmas is a special time
To give, to serve, to love.
It isn't just about yourself,
But others that you think of.
The presents, the trees, the glowing lights
Are fun but have no part
In what the real meaning of Christmas is...
That is in your heart.
Even if other people don't,
You should try to do
The things that you would want
Them to do to you!
The holidays are a busy time,
But they are sometimes good
Because they keep you thinking
About others like you should.
So this year, try to not think about yourself,
But think of the things you can do
To help others have a wonderful Christmas,
And you will find that you will be happy too.

Upon us now is that time of year again
When we think a lot about our family and friends.
The days are short and the nights are cold,
But our hearts are warm, which brightens our soul.
We endure the crowds to shop at the store.
It's worth it to us to find the perfect gift to give someone we want to buy for.
We put up lights and decorations all over the place.
Sometimes we put up so much we run out of space.
The kids are excited to go for a night ride,
To see all of the light displays people have created outside.
There are parties and dinners and food galore.
Everyone eats, drinks, and stuffs themselves 'til they can't eat anymore.
To some people, however, it's just another day,
Back in their box or alley or wherever they stay.
They see people shopping and eating and the lights all over town,
But that's not part of their world, as somewhere along the way the world has let them down.
They curl up to keep warm as the cold wind bites through their clothes.
Long forgotten are the days of presents with bows.
And others lie in a bed attended by a nurse.
Getting well and going home is what they are thinking of first.
All of the family get-togethers and eggnog will pass them by this year.
The doctors and nurses will be their holiday cheer.
Those who protect us abroad and will not be home,
They have to stay out there since the world's political views aren't monochrome.
So when we celebrate, we'll hold up a glass and toast them each year,
And hope the next holiday they will be near.
Hug your kids and keep them safe,
As some have never experienced that being a waif.
Enjoy your holiday and celebrate this season,
And when you toast, remember the others and maybe toast...for a greater reason.

For every Christmas carol we sing,
For every present under the tree,
For every child that smiles with glee,
It's still about Jesus.
For all the joy the season brings,
For every shiny, glowing thing,
For every Christmas light that shines without,
It's still about Jesus.
As the joy of giving is in the air,
Also, the bounty of many blessings with much to spare,
With food beyond measure in which we shall feast,
The rejoicing of precious life makes it all complete.
Giving thanks through prayer is a timely pleasure,
For the birth of our Savior is the greatest treasure.
For with hope and grace in which we are so faithfully bound,
For it is the love of our Lord God in which we were found.
Brings to my remembrance of how Christmas began,
A King was born to save the souls of all men.

Christmas is a loving hug
Or roasting chestnuts on the rug.
Christmas is one's first snow
And wrapping presents up with bows.
Christmas is sledding over the ice,
And giving presents feels so nice.
Christmas is a friend.
I never want Christmas to end.

Cold days and hard long nights.
Trees shimmed with tiny lights,
Their branches pointing ever high,
Reaching for the midnight sky.
Christmas is here!
Delicate snowflake dancing down,
Piling high across the town.
Children running 'round and 'round
While parents watch in the background.
Christmas is here!
Warming cold hands by the fire,
Listening to singing by the choir.
Stockings hanging in a row,
Wishing not to go so low.
Christmas is here!
As children climb into bed,
Santa arrives with his sled.
Mince pies stuffed in his mouth,
As he shouts:
"HO, HO, HO, Christmas is here!"

Christmas looms near.
People pass by,
singing and smiling,
and giving good cheer.
I look at their faces
and strain to find
a clue or a hint of some pain close to mine.
I see bright, shiny eyes that seemingly smile,
and a nod of greetings while they're all passing by.
I continue to watch, amazed at their will
to go on with lives while mine's lying still.
Shops all amassed with holiday mirth,
celebrating our one true Christ Savior's birth,
but there are those of us looking,
no matter how mild,
for another soul getting through Christmas
without their sweet child.

Once upon a Christmas time, not very long ago,
was a loving family that lost all Christmas glow.
Tears of sadness filled the air                                  ; no more merriment or cheer.
Loss and grief of loved ones gone, so hard to bear and carry on,
but what this family couldn't know of miracles God would bestow.
God had a plan in Heaven above to send a baby girl to love.
then within the very next year, a baby boy                       ; more joy to share!
Now there is a loving family that has found new Christmas joy.
Right beneath their Christmas tree, a baby girl and boy!
Two Christmas blessings from above,
from heaven with love!

People saying, "Ho, Ho, Ho"
Lovers kissing under the mistletoe
Children playing in the snow
Families making homemade treats
Teens with fuzzy socks on their feet
Dogs and cats sitting by the fire heat
Shoppers looking for the best gift
Employees working on their last shift
Students getting home before the snow drifts
Choirs singing, "Noel, Noel, Noel!"
Volunteers ringing little bells
Candles with winter smells
Reindeer flying through the skies
Everyone waking up to a surprise
That's what Christmas is in my eyes

The stars shone bright one silent night when shepherds saw a brilliant light.
They heard the angels sing their song, "The Lord, the Savior has been born.
In swaddling clothes You'll find the babe within a manger filled with hay."
The angels sang:
"Spread the word, rejoice, and sing. Christ is born, the King of Kings.
Spread the word. Give thanks and praise. Christ is born this Christmas Day."
On hearing news that Christ was born, the shepherds traveled into town.
They found the babe who was foretold inside a stable to behold.
They knelt and prayed before the child and gazed in awe and then they smiled
when angels sang:
"Spread the word, rejoice, and sing. Christ is born, the King of Kings.
Spread the word. Give thanks and praise. Christ is born this Christmas Day."
Then Mary heard what they were told that night by angels in the cold.
They spoke of light and heaven's song. They spoke of searching for the One.
Then Mary pondered all these things. Her child was Lord, the King of Kings.
The angels sang:
"Spread the word, rejoice, and sing. Christ is born, the King of Kings.
Spread the word. Give thanks and praise. Christ is born this Christmas Day."
Then they returned to watch their fields. Their lives were changed, a message revealed.
Go spread the word of all you've seen, that Christ is born, the Savior King.
Go spread the word. Give thanks and praise. Go spread the love this Christmas Day.
The angels sang:
"Spread the word, rejoice, and sing. Christ is born, the King of Kings.
Spread the word. Give thanks and praise. Christ is born this Christmas Day".
Go spread the love this Christmas Day.

Rows of houses blanketed with snow.
Christmas lights lucent and aglow.
A reindeer, a sleigh, like artwork on display.
Stories unraveling, brass bells ringing,
Smiles and laughter and joyful singing.
Come, gather 'round the table tonight!
Cold is the winter.
Warm is the fire.
Blessings, good tidings to all of your days.
'Tis the season to celebrate!
Sheath your swords of anger and hate.
A candle, a wish, the flickering of a flame,
Love everlasting, love never ceasing,
Peace and rest to ease our breathing.
Come, gather 'round the table tonight!
Cold is the winter.
Warm is the fire.
Blessings, good tidings to all of your days.

I wrote a letter to Santa
To make sure he would know
It's only two weeks until Christmas
And we still don't have any snow.
Just didn't want his reindeer
To have to work too hard.
I was afraid they might get stuck
In the mud outside in our yard.
I mailed my letter on Monday,
Only two days ago.
As I dropped it in the mailbox,
It slowly started to snow.
It's been snowing ever since,
More as each day goes by.
I'm getting kind of worried now
That Santa will think I lied.
I'll write another letter
And mail it off today.
Tell Santa not to worry,
There'll be lots of snow for his sleigh.

There's something truly magical
that happens once a year.
He comes while you are sleeping,
he and his reindeer.
His name is Santa Claus.
Perhaps you have heard of him before.
He lives with Mrs. Claus,
way up at the North Pole.
He has a factory
where they make lots of toys,
special toys just for you,
all the little good girls and boys.
On Christmas Eve, he loads his sleigh,
presents and all.
He shouts the name of every reindeer      ;
they answer to his call.
They begin to fly up in the sky.
Their journey takes flight,
and Santa knows he has little time before
nighttime turns light.
He comes down the chimney,
furnace, or front door,
scratches his beard and goes to work,
putting presents on the floor.
He eats the milk and cookies,
so quiet and discreet.
I never hear or see him.
He's gone within a blink.
As the morning barely creeps,
I run down the stairs,
presents are so pretty,
packaged with love and care.
The note says from Santa.
I squeal with delight.
Thank you, thank you, Santa.
I'll see you next Christmas night.

In the damp, dusty cellar, surrounded by boxes,
Our excitement just grows without measure.
Searching and sorting with loud shouts of glee,
As we uncovered the grand Christmas treasure.
Christmas lights in a ball, but Dad's not deterred,
As with a purpose, he heads out the door.
And I spy from the window, for the time has now come,
For Dad to adorn our front porch.
The weather is frigid, his breath floats in the air,
And the sky is the deepest of gray.
The spirit of Christmas can be felt everywhere,
With the promise of snow on the way.
So I watch as my Dad makes his plan of attack,
While I sit comfy, cozy inside.
But I knew in my heart where I needed to be,
Out there shivering, but right by his side.
So I bundle up tight and I head out the door,
Nothing can stand in my way.
And I knew by his smile and his pat on my back
That he truly was glad that I came.
Now perfectionist Dad always knew what to do,
And for him every light had its place.
So together we stood, completing our task,
Precious memories these moments would make.
Under an ominous sky large snowflakes appeared,
And it seemed that the time had just flown.
But we both were determined to finish the job,
Though tired and chilled to the bone.
As the last light was placed, complete darkness prevailed,
We had accomplished our goal just in time.
The smell of Mom's cooking floated by in the air,
And the feeling of success was sublime.
Now into the house, I run with such joy,
To summon all family to come.
And we stand on the street, as Dad plugs in the lights,
Illuminating our world one by one.
For certain it's Christmas and my heart feels so full,
With the beauty of color and shimmer.
But being with Dad sharing time in the cold
Is forever what I will remember!

The laughter of eternity's children
Resides in the glint of his eyes,
And his joyous laugh, which surrounds us all,
Leaves an echo that never dies.
The good will he sows so generously
Wraps us warmly in blankets of cheer,
And the words that he speaks bring great hope and joy
To small angels far and near.
To see a child's hopeful excitement
As he rests upon Santa's knee
Or the look of wonder on her face
When she encounters the magical tree
Overwhelms my heart with tenderness
And brings me lightness of mind.
Santa is here to spread his gift
Of peace to all mankind.

Creeping through the silent night,
Things that move are things of fright,
Sleigh bells never ringing now
Angels seldom singing now
Nothing comes to make their season bright.
Ring the bells and praise the Lord
For our soldiers' love outpoured,
Post their names upon your tree
As they fight to keep us free.
Remember their gift forevermore.
Helicopters - guns and tanks
Moving now in guarded ranks,
Not a bit of Christmas cheer
That must wait 'til they're home next year,
Since their only present is your "Thanks."
Ring the bells and praise the Lord
For our soldiers' love outpoured,
Post their names upon your tree
As they fight to keep us free.
Remember their gift forevermore.
Now with many flags unfurled
Boys and girls from 'round the world
Lift their voices - battle cry
Bound to win or bound to die
Brave young heroes all - to chaos hurled.
Ring the bells and praise the Lord
For our soldiers' love outpoured,
Post their names upon your tree
As they fight to keep us free.
Remember their gift forevermore.
Here at home with Christmas cheer
In this fun time of the year,
Let's pause a bit from what we've planned,
Singing songs - with praises ... and
Send a loving hug to soldiers dear.
Ring the bells and praise the Lord
For our soldiers' love outpoured,
Post their names upon your tree
As they fight to keep us free.
Remember their gift forevermore.

The minstrels played their Christmas tune
To-night beneath my cottage-eaves            ;
While, smitten by a lofty moon,
The encircling laurels, thick with leaves,
Gave back a rich and dazzling sheen,
That overpowered their natural green.
Through hill and valley every breeze
Had sunk to rest with folded wings:
Keen was the air, but could not freeze,
Nor check, the music of the strings          ;
So stout and hardy were the band
That scraped the chords with strenuous hand.
And who but listened?—till was paid
Respect to every inmate's claim,
The greeting given, the music played
In honour of each household name,
Duly pronounced with lusty call,
And "Merry Christmas" wished to all.

'Tis the season for lots of love.
Gather all friends and family
And celebrate the joys from above.
Plan a feast and wrap gifts happily.
Distribute it all around.
Gather all friends and family.
Add the carols to make it sound
As it adds love to spirit.
Distribute it all around.
Enjoy the decorations as you share it.
Bask in the smiles of the season
As it adds love to spirit.
Friends and family are good reason
To spread warmth and cheer.
Bask in the smiles of the season.
Christmas! Celebrate with all who are dear!
'Tis the season for lots of love
To spread warmth and cheer
And celebrate the joys from above.

There was a voice in the wilderness,
An eerie, heart-rending, dismal sound.
'Twas Elfie the elf, and he'd gotten lost.
All he could see was snow and frost.
He's Santa's helper this Christmas Eve.
Somehow he hadn't seen the sleigh leave.
There were many elf helpers and reindeer,
So he hadn't been missed, that was clear.
They'd done their work, delivered the goods.
Then it was back to North Pole's neighbourhood.
Elf didn't know these streets or what to do,
So he started to sing to help him through.
Elfie was an elf who loved to sing
And would always sing most anything.
Truth was, his voice came out as a croak.
You'd think he'd gotten a frog in his throat.
He made folk laugh                              ; 
they thought him a clown.
Elfie never let that get him down.
He had a heart that was made of gold,
Would help anyone, young or the old.
Now it was Elfie in need of help,
So he began singing his heart out.
He chose the carol "O Holy Night"
As Jesus was being born tonight.
Someone was out there shoveling snow.
He heard the voice and his heart was aglow.
Spotting Elfie, he ran to his aid               ;
In that moment, magic was made.
The helper took Elfie in, gave him food
And offered a warm bed he could use.
Elfie was grateful and got some sleep
After praying for this stranger's keep.
Christmas morning Elfie got a surprise.
Santa and his reindeer had arrived.
They'd heard him singing from far away,
And all became well for Christmas Day.

Just as the moon was fading
Amid her misty rings,
And every stocking was stuffed
With childhood’s precious things,
Old Kriss Kringle looked around,
And saw on the elm-tree bough,
High hung, an oriole’s nest,
Lonely and empty now.
“Quite a stocking,” he laughed,
“Hung up there on a tree!
I didn’t suppose the birds
Expected a present from me!”
Then old Kriss Kringle, who loves
A joke as well as the best,
Dropped a handful of snowflakes
Into the oriole’s empty nest.

The moon reflects the fallen snow
And makes it light as day
I lay awake upon my bed,
As the clock tick tocks away.
A sound pierces the silence,
Perhaps a sleigh upon the roof.
And rushing to the chimney,
The clip clop of reindeer's hooves.
My heart fills with excitement.
Could Santa Claus be there?
I gently tip toe from my room
And down the wreath-lined stairs.
Then almost in a whisper,
I hear a Ho, Ho, Ho!
And spy a hulking shadow
In the trees' prismatic glow.
I peek around the corner,
And sitting in Dad's chair
Is Santa Claus in all his glory,
Munching cookies I prepared.
His cheeks are pudgy, rosy red,
And his eyes are kind and bright.
I feel frozen there right where I stand,
Bewitched by such a sight.
He seems a happy fellow,
As he finishes his snack.
His bulbous belly shakes with glee
As he gathers up his sack.
And then I see beneath the tree,
Toys of every size.
Everything I ever wished for,
Laid out before my eyes.
And there beside the chimney,
As he prepares to take his leave,
Santa gives a hearty Ho, Ho, Ho!
Then winks and waves at me.
Then suddenly he vanishes,
As the chimney shakes with soot.
And all I see at that last moment
Are his black and shiny boots.
I feel so sad and thoughtless
As I watch him cross the sky.
I never even thanked him
Or wished him luck and said good-bye.
Well, next year will be different,
For I'll be waiting there.
And when Santa makes his visit,
I'll show him just how much I care.
I'll knit for him the longest scarf
To keep the cold at bay
And a huge and cozy blanket
To warm his lap inside his sleigh.
And when it's time for him to go,
He'll not use the chimney anymore,
For I will shake my good friend's hand
And blithely walk him to the door.

​It's such a warming feeling
Being surrounded by Christmas
Expectation fills the air.
The sparkle, the glitter
Presents under the gree
With loved ones our dreams we share.
The sound of Christmas carols
Choirs singing Silent Night.
A time to reflect
And thank God above
As we herald the most holy night.
A time to remember loved ones
Who we have lost along the way.
Grief is a heavy burden
Much more poignant
Come Christmas Day.
As a child I believed in Santa
And that there was a God above.
And as a kid
They never once let me down
Ahh!
If only they could bring back the ones I love.
All those Christmases spent together
Now a family torn apart.
A home now bathed in silence
With only memories to warm the heart.

Dear Santa,
Christmas is just around the bend,
So in this letter I send
Are the presents I want from you to me.
Keep on reading and you will see!
A jack in the box with a pop out fox,
A spinning top that will never stop,
A remote controlled fly but with moving eyes,
But most of all I want this:
My daddy home to love and kiss
So Christmas morning there will be
All of us being a happy family.
So please, can you bring him back from war?
Then we'll know he's safe for sure.

Star of the East, that long ago
Brought wise men on their way
Where, angels singing to and fro,
The Child of Bethlehem lay—
Above that Syrian hill afar
Thou shinest out to-night, O Star!
Star of the East, the night were drear
But for the tender grace
That with thy glory comes to cheer
Earth's loneliest, darkest place       ;
For by that charity we see
Where there is hope for all and me.
Star of the East! show us the way
In wisdom undefiled
To seek that manger out and lay
Our gifts before the child—
To bring our hearts and offer them
Unto our King in Bethlehem!

We've reached the end of another year
Where Christmas time is growing near
Friends and family we hold so dear
Will soon feel the warmth of holiday cheer.
Is Santa single? Or is he married to Ms. Kringle?
Is it the wedding bells that jingle? Or is it the reindeer as they mingle?
The brightest starts start to twinkle
As young hearts begin to tingle.
This is a very special time
For children of all ages and kind
To ask for whatever comes to their mind
And to see if Rudolph's nose really shines!
Santa's laugh is so unique and so profound
It makes his belly jiggle around
As he lands his sleigh down on the ground
He tiptoes up to the rooftops without making a sound.
He gets out his list
And starts checking it twice.
Who has been naughty?
Who has been nice?
Santa's philosophy as another year leaves:
Always believe that New Year's resolutions can be achieved.
Keep the faith                                                             ; always believe in yourself and maybe someday
You'll get to meet the elves.

As the snow fell and the wind blew cold,
Set an American Soldier with just a rifle to hold.
His eyes would scan the mountainsides,
And there were times that he would cry,
For he knew what tomorrow was and where he would be
As his family gathered around the lighted tree.
For tomorrow was Christmas all through the land
As he set in the snow this time and not in the sand.
Several tours of duty, he has had to do.
So, we would be safe, I mean me and you.
Ah, he is a soldier.
His troops do not see him cry,
For when they are around, he holds it all inside.
And as the snow fell from the cold night sky,
A voice this soldier heard.
The voice said, "Don't worry son, everything is good,"
As he went back to his hut
And sat there on his bed
With the thought of Christmas, still wandering through his head.
The thought of little smiling faces
Filled with joy as they unwrapped the gifts that Santa left, before he was deployed.
Then the voice came back to him
And said, "Thank you for your service and all that you have done.
Sleep good tonight, Soldier.
These mountains tonight, you will not trod,
For I am standing guard tonight," said the voice of God.
"I am here to watch over each one of you
And to keep each of you safe
So that next year at Christmas, you're not in these places.
For you will be with your loved ones, with smiles upon your faces.
So, rest tonight my soldiers.
Back home, everyone is fine,
For they are under our watch.
I mean yours and mine."
So as the soldiers drifted off to sleep, not a one of them wept,
For God stood guard on Christmas Eve and peace that night he kept.
So, as you celebrate Christmas,
Keep our troops in mind and say a prayer for all of them,
That they will be just fine.
Remember them as you've gathered around your Christmas tree,
That they would love to be home with their families.

An angel called to Mary one day.
"You will have a baby," she heard him say,
Now not yet married was Mary - however
The obedient girl just said, "Whatever."
Now the trip to Bethlehem was long and tiring.
The poor old donkey was sure perspiring.
'Twas a nasty burden upon their backs
That compulsion to pay a Roman tax!
A dirty stable with mouldy hay
'Twas a dismal place to end the day.
Of simple comforts there was a dearth
And no wise midwife to help give birth.
God's son in a manger,
Can anything be stranger?
A truly odd place for a baby to sleep.
A feeding trough for a cow or a sheep!
An angel came to shepherds that night.
It's not surprising - they were filled with fright
"No need," said he, "for such behaviour,
'Cause tonight for you is born a Saviour!"
When the shepherds got there, this they found
A babe in a manger and straw on the ground.
Maybe they wondered, it's obvious since
He didn't look much like a royal prince!
Some wise men came from far away
With gifts for a king they wished to convey.
They called with Herod - an evil king
But rival monarchs were not his thing!
When the wise men came, they entered the house,
Found Jesus, Joseph and Mary, his spouse.
Presented their gifts, most precious we're told
Frankincense, myrrh and a casket of gold.
His birth was humble, His death was tragic,
But the rest of His story was more than magic.
Though buried on Earth, He rose up to the sky
As our Lord in Heaven, never more to die.

Today, December 23rd, another Christmas nears.
I try to keep tradition up while holding back my tears.
I know I have been blessed for all the many years
of love and joy and family and times we had to share.
The presents wrapped, the tree is lit, the wreath upon the door,
but pondering all the Christmases past and tears begin to fall.
This Christmas will be different,
for some very special loved ones have received God's final call.
Then I dry my tears and say a special prayer.
Dear God, my gift to you is that soul I loved so dear.
I thank you for their life and love
I was so blessed to share.
Now all that I can ask of you is to keep them in your care!
I also want to offer you my each and every tear.
Now I promise to make Christmas joy for those I still have here
and put a smile upon their face while we have time to share.
Amen

'Twas the eve before Christmas.
I left it too late.
The shelves are all bare.
Oh, why did I wait?
I swore I'd shop early,
I clearly remember,
And be done with it all
By the first of December.
But now here I am
With picked-over stock.
The boxes are crumpled
On the Marvel knockoffs.
Sweaters too big,
Slippers too small.
The pushing the grabbing,
Get me out of this mall.
I will stop at the drug store
And purchase a card
And fill it with money.
Why make life hard?
It always fits
And suits everyone's taste.
No need to wrap it.
That's just a waste.
But should you not like it,
Dear, have no fear,
If you'd like to return it,
My pocket's right here.

It was the night before Christmas and all were asleep.
No one made a noise, not even a peep.
The little tikes slept, all tucked in their beds
With pictures of St. Nick whirling about in their heads.
A little boy waited for old St. Nick.
And all of the sudden he heard the snap of a stick.
A sound out of doors made the boy jump.
He looked out the window and saw St. Nick on a stump.
The young boy looked with his eyes all aglow
At the man dressed in red standing out in the snow.
He tip-toed out of his room and down the hall.
He saw old St. Nick putting out presents and all.
He watched very quietly, peeking through a crack in the door.
He shifted positions and heard the creak of the floor.
The jolly man turned, and through his white beard smiled.
They just stood there and stared at each other a while.
St. Nick whispered, "Merry Christmas to you."
The young lad smiled and said, "And the same to you."
The jolly man went to the roof with a thump.
The boy looked out the window and saw him land on the stump.
St. Nick flew away calling, "Ho, ho, ho!"
And the little boy looked and saw only the snow.
He looked at the tree and saw presents there.
And then he knew that he might need to share.
He told his parents of his night in the morning.
Smiling they replied, "You were only dreaming, darling."

Over in the corner, 'neath the Christmas tree's green,
Are the tiny wooden figures, our Nativity scene.
Each tells a story, each plays its part.
Each holds a special place here in my heart.
Down from the attic, unwrapped with great care,
It just isn't Christmas if they're not there.
They're faded and dented, their paint chipped away,
But the love they stand for is as fresh as today.
And as the years go by and our days grow few,
Outside we grow older, inside we grow new,
And the tiny wooden figures are a symbol of love,
Of the grace and the peace of our God above.
By the side there stands Joseph, keeping watch in the night
The smile on his face, a reflection of light
In the hay kneels sweet Mary, so gentle and mild
So willing to sacrifice, all for her child.
And as the years go by and our days grow few
Outside we grow older, inside we grow new,
And the tiny wooden figures are a symbol of love
Of the grace and the peace of our God above.
In the hay, Baby Jesus, His arms opened wide.
The same way He lived, the same way He died.
Now He stands up in Heaven, and He holds the door wide,
And He says, "Welcome children! Welcome inside!"
And as the years go by and our days grow few
Outside we grow older, inside we grow new,
And the tiny wooden figures are a symbol of love,
Of the grace and the peace of our God above.
Over in the corner, 'neath the Christmas tree's green,
Are the tiny wooden figures, our Nativity scene.
Each tells a story...each plays its part.
Each holds a special place....here in my heart

I'm dreading Christmastime this year
Because I have so much to fear:
An empty space beside my chair,
No gentle caress upon my hair,
No Christmas card from him to read,
No loving kiss upon my cheek.
The mistletoe will be unused,
And songs will make my heart feel bruised.
My heart is heavy, my pain is great.
There's nothing left to celebrate.
For my love has gone beyond the veil,
And all I want to do is wail:
"Christmastime, leave me alone!"
Happiness has left my home.

No Christmas cards this time of year, no one sends them anymore,
no Christmas tree to decorate, no Yuletide wreathe on the door.
No one comes to visit, to wish him Christmas cheer,
all alone in a tiny room, an old man sips his beer.
The radio softly playing all the Christmas songs,
the old man contemplating all the world's wrongs.
No mistletoe, no manger scene, no star of Bethlehem,
just a clouded memory of the way it was back then.
Not a call from anyone, friend or family,
by himself on Christmas Day, not the way it was meant to be.
On a cold Christmas morning, church goers hurry by,
the old man sits and watches, with a teardrop in his eye.
No one pays attention, no one is aware,
no one seems to see the shut-in sitting there.
No internet, no Facebook, no one taught him how,
wish he had long ago                                             ; it'd be useful now.
A black lab, his company, curled up on the floor,
like his master, old and tired, can't move fast anymore.
The old man sits and waits in his wheelchair,
for a visit or a call from someone, somewhere.
Merry Christmas my old friend, Happy New Year,
words he's been waiting for; that's all he wants to hear.

Christmas Day, the church bells ring
Holy night, the angels sing
Rejoice and praise
In Christ our King
Sacrificed for all our sins
Through faith and love we worship Him.
Merry Christmas, everyone
Amen, God bless
Share your love, have fun.

It's Christmas, please remember
those left out in the cold,
the lost, alone, and lonely,
the hungry and the old.
Remember all the children
who live from day to day,
scared, alone, and hungry.
No season's cheer have they.
Remember all the homeless
out there in the cold,
where, but for fortune,
it could be us, l'm told.
Remember all the old folk
who struggle to survive,
alone with just their memories
of a far happier life.
So remember all the blessings
this life has given you,
and spare a thought this Christmas,
for one day....it could be you!

Christ born upon this earth
Hallelujah praise God for his birth
Rejoicing our Lord has come
Immanuel God's chosen one
Star shining brightly from heaven
Treasures and gifts Christ was given
Mother Mary who bore us God's son
Angel, God's messenger from above
Savior and Sins Christ has forgiven

Santa came down
The chimney with care.
Below was the fire
With a steaming hot flare.
As Santa squirmed down,
And his bottom was burned.
He threw down the presents
And simply turned.
His reindeer blew
The fire out.
And that's when we heard him
Let out a shout.
He woke up the neighbors.
We saw him leave.
That's why there's no fire
On Christmas Eve.

Christmas time is here.
Let's celebrate and cheer.
The sun goes down, the lights come on,
When Christmas time is near.
The sound of sleigh bells fills the air,
As Santa himself creeps up the stair.
I hop in bed and close my eyes
And hope I wake up to a big surprise.
I wake up to the warmth of the sun,
Knowing that Christmas day has begun.
I wait to open my door,
But all I hear is my dad snore.
I race my brother to the tree,
Wondering what presents there will be.
Then Mum and Dad come down,
Wondering what gifts we have found!

Hear Ye, Hear Ye there is much to do,
But the reindeer up north have caught the flu!
The presents are wrapped, the sleigh is all set,
So instead of reindeer, we're using your pets.
Just show them this note on Christmas Eve,
So when the time comes, they'll be ready to leave.
We'll take dogs, we'll take snakes, we'll take hamsters and cats.
We'll take frogs, we'll take lizards, we'll even take bats!
We'll pretty much take whatever you've got.
For Santa's sleigh, we'll need a lot.
Your pet should leave when you're asleep,
So don't make a sound or a peep.
When your pet comes to fly the sleigh,
I'll make them fly, I'll show them the way.
We'll soar through the night up high in the sky.
Looking down at the houses as we fly on by.
Oh, and thank you for helping Santa Claus.
From your old pal, Santa Paws.

The orange glow of the fireplace
fills the room with Christmas cheer.
To my family I raise my glass,
full of wishes for the year.

The prophets announced Christ's birth
that He would one day come to earth.
He was sent by the Father to pay a price,
and He became the living sacrifice.
God took a good look across the land,
but sadly enough He found no man.
Not one was righteous that could die
for sinful souls such as you and I.
So God Himself had a perfect plan,
and because of His great love for man,
God became flesh and came to earth
to die for mankind, to give us worth.
The sin debt was paid on the cross
so all could be saved and none lost.
Satan is defeated in the story we tell
and Jesus became our Emmanuel.
Now Christmas comes to one and all
to celebrate by those who answer the call.
It's all about Him, the Lord Jesus Christ,
who came to offer us the gift of life.

Thick snowballs flying
Sweet gingerbread aroma
Christmas tree twinkling

Sleighing through the forest
On a late December evening,
To my sister tightly clinging
In our flying wintry bed.
Father briskly leading
The pampered horses heaving,
Beneath the heavens reeling
Round the pole star we are led.
Faster, ever faster
O'er the crunching, steely ice,
Tucked in warm and cozy
Like some picture postcard mice.
The mighty forest bows before us
Beneath its weight in snow,
A shimmering palace of ice crystals
Bathed in moonlight's glow.
Wind ascending,
Sleep descending,
As homeward bound we go.

A happy fat Santa busy one day, looks to his elves,
All busy with work and no play.
A little boy running through the snow lays down to make angels,
All neat in a row.
A pine tree drug through a living room and sat in place,
Awaits the smiling faces, to decorate it with beautiful lace.
A mistletoe hung above,
is just the place for a new and kindering love.
A group of carolers out in the cold,
Sing beautiful songs for the young and thee old.
A delicious dinner made on Christmas, Is begun with prayer,
And is eaten with love and care.
Anxious children are told to sleep, though they are too excited to try.
So they lie awake and watch for a sleigh in the sky.
On Christmas morning, many will gather, sharing gifts and a story,
While adults smile at their children with pride and infinite glory!
Merry Christmas

'Twas the week before Christmas and without fail
we still did not have our cards in the mail.
Our Christmas letter was blank, not even a line.
The address book lost (as it was most of the time)
I had just finished "Leno" and was headed to bed
when my wife threw a box of cards at my head.
"They're your friends, too," she shouted at me.
"The least you could do is finish the tree!"
I knew right then there was no place to hide.
Grabbed the tinsel and lights and headed outside.
Now where was this tree she went on about?
I had not seen it. Was it inside the house?
When all of a sudden from above came a noise.
I looked up to the sky and down fell a toy.
And then fell another, toys all over the ground.
I dropped all the tinsel and turned right around.
There on my roof was a herd of reindeer
and a jolly fat man dressed up in red gear.
Now I was no slouch and guessed right away
this must be Santa and that was his sleigh.
His arms gripped my chimney, his head down the flue.
By the sounds I would guess that he just had a few.
I shouted "Hey, Santa! Why the sleigh and reindeer?
You're a week early and you shouldn't be here."
His head rose up slowly and he looked all around
until finally he noticed me there on the ground.
"Where am I?" he whispered and then held his head
"The last thing I remember was going to bed.
"The elves had a party since their job was done.
They spiked the eggnog and I had more than one."
"Let me help you," I said. "Get these toys back in place.
Come on in for some coffee and to clean up your face."
I thought for a moment, "Should I tell my wife?"
But Santa and I needed no more lectures that night.
While he had his coffee I found his lost sack
Untangled the reindeer and put the toys back.
He thanked me profusely and I pointed his way
And as I walked back inside I heard my wife say,
"The problem with you is no Christmas spirit!"
With a smile I looked up and said, "Whatever you say, Dearest."

In the distance, quite afar
I see the bright shining star
Although it's quite far away
It begins the story of this special day
Long ago, out of danger
Jesus lay in the manger
As shepherds watched their sheep at night
They suddenly saw the twinkling light
Which guided them all the way
To see the baby in the hay
The kings who also saw the light
Came riding through the cold snowy night
And even though they were quite old
They bought him lots and lots of gold
However, all around the earth
We all forget the special birth
Christmas is now much more fun
Now all the traditions have begun
Snowball fights with our friends
Playing all day till it ends
Dancing round the cozy fire
Listening to the sweet singing choir
There is of course one serious matter
Christmas time just makes you fatter
Eating lots of food at dinner
That won't make you any thinner
Putting up the Christmas lights
Brightens up the dark cold nights
Hanging decorations on the tree
Makes people happy and full of glee
And then we get to Christmas Eve
Where Santa's packed and ready to leave
The jolly man all in red
Expects you to be asleep in bed
With a sprinkle of magic and a wave of goodbye
Santa's reindeer fly high in the sky
Dashing through the snowy night
Santa's now out of sight
Now on the roofs Santa's slowing
But Rudolph's nose is still glowing
Climbing out the loaded sleigh
He eats your cookies off a tray
As you're asleep he creeps around
Trying not to make a sound
He leaves the presents piled high
Then flies back through the wintry sky
I love Christmas
It's so much fun
It's a happy time for everyone

Driftin' on a dream...
Sitting here, I gaze out the window,
Fading away...
Watching the falling snow.
Alone in the darkness,
I remember when you were mine.
Baby, I miss you most at Christmastime.
Ahh-
Casual dreamer, listening to the radio,
This cold winter's night...
The lights on the tree all aglow.
I sit in the shadows,
Slowly goin' out of my mind.
Baby, I miss you most at Christmastime.
I miss you most... I miss you most...
When the summer fades away,
All those winter shades of grey
Got me goin' crazy.
I need you now... I need you now...
More than my heart could ever break
More than my eyes could ever take
another sad goodbye.
It slowly breaks my heart,
When I dream about you late at night.
And I'm fading like a falling star
That no one made a wish upon tonight.
Baby, I miss you most at Christmastime.
Driftin' on a dream.
Driftin' on a dream.
I sit in the shadows and I think of you,
Remembering all of the cool things we used to do.
Going to the park,
Cruising the Monte Carlo,
Talking for hours with the lights down low,
Taking long walks in the purple rain,
But those memories are fading away.
Driftin' on a dream
Goin' out of my mind
I miss you most at Christmastime.
Through the seasons,
The memories start to fade-
Fade away.
And through the sweet hellos and sad goodbyes,
I gotta let go of yesterday.
(Let the sadness dissipate)
Baby, I miss you most at Christmastime.
I miss you most... I miss you most...
When the summer fades away
All those winter shades of grey
Got me goin' crazy.
I need you now... I need you now...
More than my heart could ever break
More than my eyes could ever take
another sad goodbye.
It slowly breaks my heart,
When I dream about you late at night.
And I'm fading like a falling star
That no one made a wish upon tonight.
Baby, I miss you most at Christmastime.
Driftin' on a dream...
Driftin' on a dream...

The boys sit down in the park beneath the tree,
Praying that their parents could look down and see.
The beautiful angel on top with the pretty gold bow,
And all of the presents that lay wrapped below.
Christmas at their house had been full of smiles,
Now a smile can't be seen for miles.
When their dad went away everything went wrong,
It's been a few months but it has seemed so long.
A woman walked by and saw the boys,
And handed them two carefully wrapped toys.
She found the local orphanage from which they ran,
And nearly cried when she spoke to the man.
On Christmas Eve she adopted the boys,
And took them home to see all the toys.
They had bought an angel for the top of the tree,
It was tall enough for heaven to see.
Soon their parents would surely see
The angel with the gold bow on top of their tree.

Dear Santa,
Christmas is coming and I know I should be glad,
But to tell the real truth, I am really, really sad.
You see, I have lost something so precious to me,
And there is no way you could put it back under my tree.
I was given a job quite some time ago.
I thought I could do it, but it wasn't so.
I honestly did what I thought was the best,
But this mess, who wouldn't guessed?
I was given a family with daughters to raise.
Oh, how I wish I could relive those days.
I would do it differently, be a better mother.
Maybe then we wouldn't hate each other.
My house is no longer a happy one.
There is no more laughter, no more fun.
No one talks, no one seems to care.
We are all just roommates with a place to share.
I don't really know where things went all wrong.
I truly thought love would keep the family strong.
I realize now that it wasn't enough.
Neither was buying them all kinds of stuff.
Somewhere along the line I believe I've failed.
Instead of love and caring, it's hate that's prevailed.
They have all given up                                   ; they don't care anymore,
And it breaks my heart to its very core.
I am tired of crying and feeling so bad.
I want things to be happy and no longer be sad.
I want my family back                                    ; is that too much to ask?
I don't really think it's an impossible task.
Just talk to the girls and make them believe
That together there is nothing we can't achieve.
We can be a family again                                 ; I know and I pray.
They are just lost                                       ; please show them the way.
Dear Santa, I hope that you hear my plea
And bring my family back to me.
I would be ever so grateful and I promise I'd be
A better mother than I'd been previously.

Dear Santa,
For Christmas this year I would most love to see
Two plane tickets to Arizona placed under my tree.
You see, my Aunt had a baby and my Nannie's real ill
I haven't the money to send both my sister and I, unless you will.
You can send us the cash, you can take us yourself
We can even fly there with your most responsible elf.
Oh please Santa, get us both there somehow.
We could wait until later, but it's best to go now.
Nannies going through surgery, we're not sure if she'll live,
And well, this is the season for everyone to give,
I only want to see her, yes, this is all I ask.
Is my Christmas wish such a difficult task?
When you get this and read it, think it over a time or two.
I know this is a hard decision, but I'm positive you've had a few.
Even if one ticket is all you can give,
Don't worry.
I'll send my sister and pray that dear Nannie will live.
I'm sorry I've been bad, next year I'll try to be better.
You have a big job, so I oughta end this letter.
Have a Merry Christmas Santa, tell the elves and Mrs. Claus I said hi.
Thank you for your time Sir, now I must say good bye.
P.S. The milk is in a glass and the cookies on a tray.
You know where I live, so nothing more shall I say.

That cheerful feeling
In the air
With a bit of love
All around
The food is on the table
And the presents under the tree
Dinner is ready
So come on, let's eat
Everyone is at the table
Eating their Christmas meals
Because it's the most
Wonderful time of the year
Look out your window
Thank God for letting it snow
It's the best time of the year
To spend it with the family
The night has passed
And the day has come
There are presents to open
And more fun to come
But it's not about presents
It's not about food
It's about family time
That's Christmas time

Christmas lights twinkle and shine as bright
as the stars in the sky on a cold, clear night.
The fresh blanket of fallen snow,
it looks so pretty on the tree boughs.
People bundled up so warm, rushing to and fro,
don't forget the mistletoe!
Child laughter, building snowmen, sled riding or ice skating,
they are all patiently waiting.
Quiet whispers and footsteps creeping,
very soon you'll hear paper crinkling.
Keeping beat with the Christmas season are bells ringing,
the rhythm and rhyme come from the carolers singing.
The turkey is stuffed and ready for roasting,
the bread has risen and ready for toasting.
The soft glow of a cinnamon scented candle is fine,
the Christmas tree that smells like pine.
Pumpkin pie, apple pie and all the cookies you can eat,
a cup of cocoa and a candy cane sure are sweet.
Most important is family, friends and lots of caring,
cuddles, kisses and hugs for sharing.
Grab your slippers and a cozy robe and come sit by the fire,
hurry along before Grammy retires.
Let me read you a story and you stay awhile,
your children and their children all smile!

'Tis the time to hug,
And stay warm and snug.
Time to ice skate over the frozen lake,
And for the sugar cookies to bake.
It is Christmas,
Occasional fog or mist.
Children get snow days,
And go out to play on sleighs.
On Christmas day it is fun,
There are just clouds and no sun.
You open your presents,
Which your family sent.
The kids just rip the wrapping,
And can't stop laughing.
Kids get toys,
Specially made for girls or boys.
Teens get phones and games,
And call their siblings lame.
The kids go out to make angels in the snow,
Running through the cold air that blows.
No one wants the day to end,
So some decide to share gifts or lend.
The families take off their bootlaces,
And get warm by the fireplace.
Christmas is when your family comes,
And when they all love.

Hang up the stockings.
Decorate the tree.
Presents placed perfectly.
What a sight to see!
Milk and cookies are out,
Kids are tucked in tight.
There’s so much to do
On Christmas Eve night!
Before you take a snooze
And dream of the next day,
Don’t forget some food
For the friends who pull the sleigh!
You see, reindeer need snacks, too
A little love and fun
To help Santa through the night,
And get the important job done!

A chubby little snowman
Had a carrot nose.
Along came a bunny,
And what do you suppose?
That hungry little bunny
Looking for some lunch,
Grabbed that snowman’s nose,
Nibble, nibble, crunch!

The golden Christmas stars shine down
With a cheerful Christmas glow,
And twinkle a Yuletide message
To the busy world below                 ;
They tell of the peace and good will
The Christmas time brings to earth,
The peace and good will all should feel
At this season of joy and mirth.

Five little reindeer playing in the snow
The first one said, “Can you see my nose glow?”
The second one said, “Listen to me sing!”
The third one said, “I can hear the bells ring.”
The fourth one said, “Let’s eat the pie!”
The fifth one said, “I’m ready to fly.”
Then clomp went their hooves
And the snow fell white
As the five little reindeer flew out of sight.

Tonight's my first night as a watchdog,
And here it is Christmas Eve.
The children are sleeping all cozy upstairs,
while I'm guardin' the stockin's and tree.

I took a lick 
Of a peppermint stick 
And oh it tasted yummy!
It used to be 
On the Christmas tree
But now it’s in my tummy!

When eggnog’s generously filling
Each and every Christmas mug
And siblings tour miles and miles
To greet you with a hug
There’s scarce else I’ll be wishing
Than this simple little prayer
Of peace and calm and blessings much
On Christmas Day this year.

I heard the bells on Christmas Day
Their old, familiar carols play,
And wild and sweet
The words repeat
Of peace on earth, good-will to men!

Somehow, not only for Christmas,
But all the long year through,
The joy that you give to others
Is the joy that comes back to you   ;
And the more you spend in blessing
The poor and lonely and sad,
The more of your heart's possessing
Returns to make you glad.

Every time a hand reaches out
To help another....that is Christmas
Every time someone puts anger aside
And strives for understanding
That is Christmas
Every time people forget their differences
And realize their love for each other
That is Christmas
May this Christmas bring us
Closer to the spirit of human understanding
Closer to the blessing of peace!

Merry Christmas to friends!
Merry Christmas to foes!
The world's bright with joy, so
Forget all your woes.
The earth's full of beauty, of
Love and good cheer.
Merry Christmas to all and a
Happy New Year!

Heap on more wood! - the wind is chill ;
But let it whistle as it will,
We'll keep our Christmas merry still.

We'll light a log of generous girth
For winter comfort, and the mirth
Of healthy children you shall see
About a sparkling Christmas tree.

I heard the bells on Christmas Day
Their old, familiar carols play,
And wild and sweet
The words repeat
Of peace on earth, good-will to men!

So now is come our joyful feast,
Let every man be jolly                  ;
Each room with ivy leaves is dressed,
And every post with holly.
Though some churls at our mirth repine,
Round your foreheads garlands twine,
Drown sorrow in a cup of wine,
And let us all be merry.

At Christmas time, we deck the hall
With holly branches brave and tall,
With sturdy pine and hemlock bright
And in the Yule log's dancing light
We tell old tales of field and fight
At Christmas time.
At Christmas time we pile the board
With flesh and fruit and vintage stored,
And mid the laughter and the glow
We tread a measure soft and slow,
And kiss beneath the mistletoe
At Christmas time.

Sing hey! Sing Hey!
For Christmas Day                               ;
Twine mistletoe and holly,
For friendship flows
In winter snows,
And so let's all be jolly.
How beautiful are the houses,
Decorated in red and green.
I love to see so many lights,
On the Christmas scene.
Tinsel, garland and presents,
Are some of my favorite things.
The feeling I get during Christmas,
Is something that everyone brings.
I love Christmas dinner,
Especially the big pumpkin pie.
Eggnog, fruitcake and candy canes,
Are also a big Christmas high!
Turkey and veggies are great,
But my favorite is Christmas dessert.
I think my favorite is the cookies,
Made only by the Christmas expert!
The laughter and love that family bring
The gifts and presents for everyone
Fills my heart with all good things
The day is full of lots of fun.
For the children, Christmas brings lots of toys
Excitement and giggles are all they can say
For the adults, we love the feeling of joy
Cherish the moments, enjoy the day!

Once more at home, at Christmas time,
We gather at thy call,
Thy children and grandchildren,
We are coming, one and all.
From East and West we're coming,
A joyous, happy throng.
Our hearts are glad, and on our lips
The merry Christmas song.
We've had our own Saint Nicholas,
Our merry Christmas tree,
But better far than all of these.
We're coming home to thee.
Thy presence is our beacon light.
Our star by day, our guide by night.
God bless you both, your children pray,
And keep you safe for many a day.

What a joyful hour to our sin-cursed earth.
When the tidings came of a Saviour's birth.
And the heart's warm pulse beat stronger still.
As the song was heard of Heaven's good will.
What a joyful hour! cried the sons of night.
For, as Jesus spoke, there was instant light          ;
And the exile heard, in that new-born day,
Of a home in heaven and a blissful way.
What a joyful hour, when the dumb could speak,
And the palsied arm was no longer weak                ;
When the sick could rise from their bed of pain,
And the halt and lame were restored again.
What a joyful hour, when the Saviour spoke,
And the slumbering dead from their graves awoke.
When the Prince of Life, through death*s dark domain,
Sent the warm blood back to the heart again.
But there comes an hour, far more joyful still,
When the good man's soul shall with rapture thrill    ;
When his eyes shall glow with the fire of love.
As he leaves this world for his home above.
A more joyful hour, when life's tide is crossed.
And the roar of its surge in the skies is lost        ;
When our toils are o'er, and our exile past,
And we rest in the smile of our God at last.

Immortal Babe, who this dear day
Didst change Thine heaven for our clay,
And didst with flesh Thy godhead veil,
Eternal Son of God, all hail!
Shine, happy star ye angels, sing
Glory on high to heaven's King:
Run, shepherds, leave your nightly watch!
See heaven come down to Bethlehem's cratch!
Worship, ye sages of the east,
The King of gods in meanness dressed!
O blessed maid, smile and adore
The God thy womb and arms have bore!
Star, angels, shepherds, and wise sages,
Thou virgin glory of the ages.
Restored frame of heaven and earth,
Joy in your dear Redeemer's birth!

To-day in Bethlehem hear I
Sweet angel voices singing,
All glory be to God on high,
Who peace to earth is bringing.
The Virgin Mary holdeth more
Than highest heaven most holy:
Light shines on what was dark before,
And lifteth up the lowly.
God wills that peace should be in earth.
And holy exultation
Sweet Babe, I greet Thy spotless birth
And wondrous Incarnation.
To-day in Bethlehem hear I
Even the lowly singing:
With angel-words they pierce the sky     ;
All earth with joy is ringing.

We recognize this Christmas morn
Unto us, this Child was born
Angels sang in the heavens above
God showed us what is true love.
The joy of Christmas is felt each year
Goodwill and peace is near
The world was changed by this birth
When God sent His Son to the earth.
The joy can be felt in our hearts
A joy that we don't want to depart
Keep Christmas in your heart all year
And as the Angels said, "Do not fear."
Knowing that Jesus loves you
And died for you many years ago
Is a love that many don't know.
Give joy to others, let His love show.

My Christmas wish for you, my friend
Is not a simple one
For I wish you hope and joy and peace
Days filled with warmth and sun
I wish you love and friendship too
Throughout the coming year
Lots of laughter and happiness
To fill your world with cheer
May you count your blessings, one by one
And when totaled by the lot
May you find all you've been given
To be more than what you sought
May your journeys be short, your burdens light
May your spirit never grow old
May all your clouds have silver linings
And your rainbows pots of gold
I wish this all and so much more
May all your dreams come true
May you have a Merry Christmas friend
And a happy New Year, too..

A poem written for all with my Christmas wish.
Here is my Christmas wish to you
Hold it close and it may come true
Receive that special Christmas glow
Perhaps even some Christmas snow
Find Christmas spirit in your heart
That's where Christmas has to start
Find joy in the love that you share
Giving at Christmas shows we care
Enjoy the day with family and friends
A heartfelt Christmas that never ends
Keep Christmas each and every day
You may smile more but that's ok
May Christmas live inside of you
And show in all you say and do
Find joy in all that you receive
It's possible when you believe

My Christmas wish for you, my friend
Is not a simple one
For I wish you hope and joy and peace
Days filled with warmth and sun
I wish you love and friendship too
Throughout the coming year
Lots of laughter and happiness
To fill your world with cheer
May you count your blessings, one by one
And when totaled by the lot
May you find all you've been given
To be more than what you sought
May your journeys be short, your burdens light
May your spirit never grow old
May all your clouds have silver linings
\And your rainbows pots of gold
I wish this all and so much more
May all your dreams come true
May you have a Merry Christmas friend
And a happy New Year, too ..
We wish you a merry Christmas

If I could wish a wish for you,
it would be for peace and happiness
not only now,
but for the whole year through!
I wish that there always be food on your table.
And that you always remember those less fortunate.
May you always take time to share,
and thank those who share with you.
I wish for time, so you may reflect
on the blessings that you have,
and that you express your love
to those who are dear to you.
May you never feel lonely,
because there are those who care.
That you realize:
you are special,
you are unique,
you make a difference,
not only at Christmas, but all year!
I wish for your thoughts to be positive ones,
that you never quit,
that you never give up,
and that you continue to learn.
I wish for the love, peace, and joy
of Christmas be yours always.

Jesus is the reason for the season,
So think of him in all that you do.
The good you do others this season,
Should be carried out all year too.

My gift to you this Christmas
Comes tied with a pretty bow.
It's not important what's inside the box,
I just love you and wanted you to know

Hoof sounds on the roof,
As reindeer lightly touch down.
Santa has arrived.

Even though this Christmas
We must spend apart,
You're still right here with me,
Because I keep you in my heart.
So picture me there beside you
Sitting by the twinkling tree,
And rest assured next Christmas
You'll truly be spending it with me.

Santa Claus is coming tonight,
So hurry yourself to bed.
The Jolly Old Elf won't leave a gift,
If he sees one hair of your head!

The smell of pine boughs fills the air,
Pretty silver bells tinkle everywhere.
Sparkling snow covers the ground,
Christmas spirit is all around.

Church bells chime on Christmas morn
In celebration that Jesus was born.
We gather together on this joyous day,
With all the faithful to give thanks and pray.

Each year when Christmas rolls around
I get my nutcracker out.
And each time that he cracks a nut,
it makes me want to shout,
"Oh thank you Mr. Nutcracker for
Shelling my nuts for me.
Now all I need is a glass of eggnog,
and I'll eat them by my Christmas tree!"

Setting up the nativity is a holiday tradition,
And each and every figure has it own special position.
The angel sits up on the roof, and the wise men go beneath.
Joseph and Mary go in the middle, surrounded by cows and sheep.
Baby Jesus in his manger always sits right in the center,
So everyone can admire him in all his glory and splendor.

It's baby's very first Christmas,
And what a joy it will be
To hang his/her own little ornament
On the family Christmas tree.
It's marked with the year she/he was born,
And it bears his/her own sweet name.
This ornament signifies from here on out
Our Christmases will never be the same.

Santa's workshop is in full swing
And the elves are making tons of toys.
They're gifts for children on Santa's "nice list,"
Filled with names of the good girls and boys.
Trains and cars and dolls and games,
So many toys there will be.
Santa himself will deliver each one,
And leave it under the Christmas tree.

We sate among the stalls at Bethlehem               ;
The dumb kine from their fodder turning them,
Softened their horned faces
To almost human gazes
Toward the newly Born:
The simple shepherds from the star-lit brooks
Brought their visionary looks,
As yet in their astonied hearing rung
The strange sweet angel-tongue:
The magi of the East, in sandals worn,
Knelt reverent, sweeping round,
With long pale beards, their gifts upon the ground,
The incense, myrrh, and gold
These baby hands were impotent to hold:
So let all earthlies and celestials wait
Upon thy royal state.
Sleep, sleep, my kingly One!

Sitting under the mistletoe
(Pale-green, fairy mistletoe),
One last candle burning low,
All the sleepy dancers gone,
Just one candle burning on,
Shadows lurking everywhere:
Some one came, and kissed me there.

Tired I was                            ; my head would go
Nodding under the mistletoe
(Pale-green, fairy mistletoe),
No footsteps came, no voice, but only,
Just as I sat there, sleepy, lonely,
Stooped in the still and shadowy air
Lips unseen—and kissed me there.

The feast of Epiphany today brings the Christmas season to an end. To mark the day, here’s a litany called “The Work of Christmas” composed by Howard Thurman, an African-American theologian, educator, and civil rights leader.
When the song of the angels is stilled,
when the star in the sky is gone,
when the kings and princes are home,
when the shepherds are back with their flocks,
the work of Christmas begins:
to find the lost,
to heal the broken,
to feed the hungry,
to release the prisoner,
to rebuild the nations,
to bring peace among the people,
to make music in the heart.

The Christ-child lay on Mary's lap,
His hair was like a light.
(O weary, weary were the world,
But here is all aright.)
The Christ-child lay on Mary's breast
His hair was like a star.
(O stern and cunning are the kings,
But here the true hearts are.)
The Christ-child lay on Mary's heart,
His hair was like a fire.
(O weary, weary is the world,
But here the world's desire.)
The Christ-child stood on Mary's knee,
His hair was like a crown,
And all the flowers looked up at Him,
And all the stars looked down

Immensity cloistered in thy dear womb,
Now leaves His well-belov'd imprisonment,
There He hath made Himself to His intent
Weak enough, now into the world to come              ;
But O, for thee, for Him, hath the inn no room?
Yet lay Him in this stall, and from the Orient,
Stars and wise men will travel to prevent
The effect of Herod's jealous general doom.
Seest thou, my soul, with thy faith's eyes, how He
Which fills all place, yet none holds Him, doth lie?
Was not His pity towards thee wondrous high,
That would have need to be pitied by thee?
Kiss Him, and with Him into Egypt go,
With His kind mother, who partakes thy woe.

Christmas is forever, not for just one day,
for loving, sharing, giving, are not to put away
like bells and lights and tinsel, in some box upon a shelf. The good you do for others is good you do yourself.

A Christmas Wish
I’d like a stocking made for a giant,
And a meeting house full of toys,
Then I’d go out in a happy hunt
For the poor little girls and boys      ;
Up the street and down the street,
And across and over the town,
I’d search and find them everyone,
Before the sun went down.

A song was heard at Christmas
To wake the midnight sky:
A saviour’s birth, and peace on earth,
And praise to God on high.
The angels sang at Christmas
With all the hosts above,
And still we sing the newborn King
His glory and his love.

Each Christmas I remember
The ones of long ago          ;
I see our mantelpiece adorned
With stockings in a row.

Each Christmas finds me dreaming
Of days that used to be,
When we hid presents here and there,
For all the family.

Each Christmas I remember
The fragrance in the air,
Of roasting turkey and mince pies
And cookies everywhere.
Each Christmas finds me longing
For Christmases now past,
And I am back in childhood
As long as memories last.

Somewhere across the winter world tonight
You will be hearing chimes that fill the air      ;
Christmas extends its all-enfolding light
Across the distance…something we can share.
You will be singing, just the same as I,
These familiar songs we know so well,
And you will see these same stars in your sky
And wish upon that brightest one that fell.
I shall remember you and trim my tree,
One shining star upon the topmost bough           ;
I will hang wreaths of faith that all may see —
Tonight I glimpse beyond the hear and now.
And all the time that we must be apart
I keep a candle in my heart.

A good time is coming, I wish it were here,
The very best time in the whole of the year             ;
I’m counting each day on my fingers and thumbs
the weeks that must pass before Santa Claus comes.
Then when the first snowflakes begin to come down,
And the wind whistles sharp and the branches are brown,
I’ll not mind the cold, though my fingers it numbs,
For it brings the time nearer when Santa Claus comes.

Christmas is a time for love and fun,
A time to reshape souls and roots and skies,
A time to give your heart to everyone
Freely, like a rich and lavish sun,
Like a burning star to those whose lonely sighs
Show need of such a time for love and fun.
For children first, whose pain is never done,
Whose bright white fire of anguish never dies,
It’s time to give your heart to every one,
That not one angel fall, to hatred won
For lack of ears to listen to her cries,
Or arms to carry him towards love and fun,
Or friends to care what happens on the run
To adult life, where joy or sadness lies.
It’s time to give your heart to everyone,
For God loves all, and turns His back on none,
Good or twisted, ignorant or wise.
Christmas is a time for love and fun,
A time to give your heart to everyone.

Sitting under the mistletoe
One last candle burning low,
All the sleepy dancers gone,
Just one candle burning on,
Shadows lurking everywhere:
Some one came, and kissed me there.
Tired I was                            ; my head would go
Nodding under the mistletoe
No footsteps came, no voice, but only,
Just as I sat there, sleepy, lonely,
Stooped in the still and shadowy air
Lips unseen – and kissed me there.

The stockings are hung,
the carols are being sung.
My heart is filled with joy,
along with every girl and boy.
It’s really hard to go to sleep,
you want to go and take a peep.
And, when you’re finally in bed,
visions of Santa dance in your head.
Your stockings are overflowing,
everyone’s face is glowing.
You must open family presents first,
you’re so excited you just might burst.
Then Santa’s are the next to go,
you tear off the wrapping and the bow.
You rip them open one by one,
seeing toy after toy, each filled with fun.
Once your thank-yous have been said,
you are definitely ready for bed.
You tell everyone good-night,
and your heart becomes light.
And while in bed,
the day dances in your head.
You thank the Lord for today,
while you slowly drift away.

There’s More to Christmas…
There’s more, much more to Christmas
Than candle-light and cheer            ;
It’s the spirit of sweet friendship
That brightens all the year            ;
It’s thoughtfulness and kindness,
It’s hope reborn again,
For peace, for understanding
And for goodwill to men!

Merry Christmas to the one I love,
Even on this day of love for all,
Remembering the love of one whose call
Redeemed all those whose hearts his love might move.
Yet only one love does my spirit prove,
Chosen in a passion like a squall,
Having in such ecstasy withal
Rejoiced in what we were created of.
In such love do we find our way outdoors,
So to be drawn to love of flesh and soul,
Traveling beyond our village green,
Moving towards the wash along our shores
As our love joins the greater love unseen,
Shining with dark passion on the whole.

A good time is coming, I wish it were here,
The very best time in the whole of the year             ;
I’m counting each day on my fingers and thumbs —
the weeks that must pass before Santa Claus comes.
Then when the first snowflakes begin to come down,
And the wind whistles sharp and the branches are brown,
I’ll not mind the cold, though my fingers it numbs,
For it brings the time nearer when Santa Claus comes.

In summertime my branches were a place for birds to nest,
In autumn my branches were their place for food and rest,
And now that wintertime is here, I hope to be all glistening
bright with snowflakes…
The little birds’ Christmas tree!

One little star on the top of the tree,
Two little presents underneath for me,
Three silver ropes twisted around the tree,
Four colored lights shining prettily,
Five shining balls flowing silvery.
Oh, what a sight for use to see!

CHRISTMAS hath darkness
Brighter than the blazing noon,
Christmas hath a chillness
Warmer than the heat of June,
Christmas hath a beauty
Lovelier than the world can show:
For Christmas bringeth Jesus,
Brought for us so low.
Earth, strike up your music,
Birds that sing and bells that ring ;
Heaven hath answering music
For all Angels soon to sing:
Earth, put on your whitest
Bridal robe of spotless snow:
For Christmas bringeth Jesus,
Brought for us so low.

Our Christmas wreaths are fat and round,
Made of the woodsy things we found.
We tied brown cones upon the green,
And stuck red berries in between.
Upon the wreath on our front door,
We tied red ribbon from the store.

Two merry blue eyes
A very little nose
A long snowy beard
And cheeks like a rose
A round chubby man
A big bulging pack
Hurrah for Old Santa
We’re glad he’s come back!

I’ve been waiting for Christmas,
And it’s almost here.
I’ve been waiting for Christmas,
Santa’s getting near.
Can’t you hear the sleigh bells ringing?
Reindeer up so high.
Can’t you hear the children singing,
As they watch the sky?

A little child,
A shining star.
A stable rude,
The door ajar.
Yet in that place,
So crude, folorn,
The Hope of all
The world was born.

I heard the bells on Christmas Day
Their old, familiar carols play,
And wild and sweet
The words repeat
Of peace on earth, good-will to men!

And thought how, as the day had come,
The belfries of all Christendom
Had rolled along
The unbroken song
Of peace on earth, good-will to men!
Till, ringing, singing on its way
The world revolved from night to day,
A voice, a chime,
A chant sublime
Of peace on earth, good-will to men!
Then from each black, accursed mouth
The cannon thundered in the South,
And with the sound
The Carols drowned
Of peace on earth, good-will to men!
And in despair I bowed my head            ;
‘There is no peace on earth,’ I said  ;
‘For hate is strong,
And mocks the song
Of peace on earth, good-will to men!’
Then pealed the bells more loud and deep:
‘God is not dead                        ; nor doth he sleep!
The Wrong shall fail,
The Right prevail,
With peace on earth, good-will to men!’

Far away in Bethlehem, a Baby Boy was born                             ;
Born with neither riches nor with fame,
Yet Wise Men came from all around to bring to Him their gifts,
And peace was felt by all who heard His name.
Angels watched Him as He slept, and gently rocked His bed              ;
Their voices singing softly in His ear                                 ;
His Mother and His Father both gave thanks to God above
For the greatest gift of all, their Son, so dear
They knew His life upon this earth would not be filled with wealth,
They also knew He would encounter strife                               ;
But most of all, they knew that He would be a loving Child,
And teach the love of God throughout His life.
At Christmas, as we celebrate this Birth of Jesus Christ,
Let’s keep in mind the truth of Christmas Day                        ;
For it’s not the Christmas wrappings, nor the gifts that lie within,
But our gift of love to others in every way…

I know so many secrets
Such secrets full of fun              ;
But if you hear my secrets,
Please don’t tell anyone.
Here are some lights that twinkle,
Here is an ornament.
Here is a great big present
From Grandpa it was sent.
And on the very tip-tip top,
An angel you can see,
What is the secret? Can’t you tell?
Why, it’s a Christmas tree!

It’s very cold tonight, dear God,
I wish You had a coat
Of thickest fur
To keep You warm.
But, Jesus, you have her-
Your Mother dear-
To hold You tight
With her arms
This Christmas night.

Tis you are cold, dear little one  ;
Your feet are wet with snow
And you have come a long, long way ;
Jesus has told me so.
A coat of fur you wished for Him,
But greater will He do.
My Babe, the very Lamb of God,
Will give Himself to you.

Cookies baking in the kitchen-
The smell floats through the air             ;
Mom is making Christmas
with her usual merry flair
The house she gaily decorated,
Each gift she stiched with love,
And we’ll gather around the Christmas tree
for an evening of old-fashioned fun
This evening she’ll sing a carol for us
With her angel’s voice.
Yes, Mom is making Christmas-
A true reason to rejoice

May you walk among the stars of morning,
Eden waiting silent for the dawn,
Ready to unravel without warning,
Restless with the urge to be reborn.
Years of longing pale into beauty            ;
Christmas is a never-realized dream.
However much devoted to your duty,
Remember that the flow is not the stream.
In my heart you wear a crown of glory
So radiant that time must turn away.
The vision rises from the untold story
More lovely than what sees the light of day.
As you can never know just who you are,
So let my love become your eastern star.

Young Mary the Mother
Gazed fondly at Him,
And softly fingered
The manger’s rim.
St. Joseph sat musing
On a bundle of hay,
The shepherds played sweetly
A bagpipe lay.
The angels stood smiling
In heaven’s joy
And humbly adoring
The infant Christ-boy.
The ox and the donkey
Forgot the fresh straw
And knelt down in wonder
At what they saw.
The walls were shining
Like molten gold,
The winds sang gaily
Around the fold.
And gleaming silver
Strewed every star,
And sang a star greeting
From heaven afar.

I like to visit Santa Claus
When Christmastime is near.
It’s fun to climb up on his lap
And whisper in his ear.
He says, “My dear, have you been good?
Have you done what Mother said you should?
Do you brush your teeth and hair each day?
Are you kind to others when you play?
I listen to each question
And answer every one.
Although I am ashamed to say
I must say no to some.
But Santa never scares me                  ;
He doesn’t even scold.
He just says, “Try again, my dear,
You’re a fine lad, I am told.”
Gee, I like to visit Santa Claus
When Christmastime is near.
It’s fun to climb up on his lap
And whisper in his ear…

There was seen a radiance
Glowing one night
Near the little maiden Mary
In blue and white.
“Lilies are not fairer,
“Roses more red,
Than the Child she sings to slumber,”
An angel said.
So the shepherds ventured
Through the white cold,
And their eyes beheld the Infant,
An hour old.
Long they gazed and wondered,
Awkward in awe,
At the paramount perfection
Within their straw.
“Diamonds are but trifles!
“Rubies no gem!”
Cried the hearts that slaved for pittance
Near Bethlehem.
So it was forever,
After the night
When the little maiden Mary
Wore blue and white.

May this Christmas be the first of many,
Each more joyous in our growing love,
Revealing more of happiness than any
Riches might provide or pain remove.
Years flow like an unrepentant river,
Carrying the soil of life away,
Holding far more than they can deliver,
Rushing past the certitudes that stay.
In love there is an instance of forever
So shy and lovely it eludes the eye,
The sense of being home when we’re together,
More enduring than a reason why.
As love is born of passion, borne by will,
So may for many years we choose love still.

A diamond shines no brighter
than that lovely Christmas star.
It shines in all its brilliance       ;
it’s seen from near or far.
A symbol of the Christ child
as He lay upon the hay,
It tell to all the waiting world
a King was born that day.
O Bethlehem Star keep shining –
give us faith and hope and love.
Keep our thoughts forever turning
to the Savior up above.
Give us strength and hope and courage
to do our best by far
And never falter in our faith
as we watch that Christmas star…

Where there is light,
there is hope.
Where there is friendship –
peace and truth.
Christmas is a time
for celebrating the special people
in our lives.
When I cannot find my way,
I light a flame.
And at Christmas . . .

There is faint music in the night,
And pale wings fanned by silver flight ;
A frosty hill with tender glow
Of countless stars that shine on snow.
A shelter from the winter storm,
A straw-lined manger, safe and warm,
And Mary crooning lullabies,
To hush her Baby’s sleepy sighs.
Her eyes are rapt upon His Face,
Unheeded here is time and space        ;
Her heart filled with blinding joy,
For God’s own Son–her little Boy!

Bright Christmas stars shine on high,
Golden stars in the wint’ry sky        ;
Christmas candles in windows bright
Send s greeting into the night           ;
While in our hearts the Christmas flame,
Glows with a love like his who came,
The infant Christ of lowly birth,
To bring good will and peace to earth.

There’s a dear old tree–an evergreen tree
And it blossoms once a year
‘Tis loaded with fruit from top to root
And brings to all good cheer.
For its blossoms bright are candles white
And its fruits are dolls and toys
And they all are free for both you and me
If we’re good little girls and boys!

Christmas is for giving
And for showing that we care,
For honoring the Christ Child
With the loving gifts we share.
The wise men gave of riches       ;
The shepherds, faith and love.
Each gift, in its own measure,
Was smiled on from above.
Let every gift be treasured       ;
Not always size or price
Determines the extent of love
And willing sacrifice
Handsome gifts with festive trim
Bring smiles of sweet content,
But modest gifts of humble means
are ofttimes heaven sent.
Whether it be large or small,
Each gift will share in part
The message of true Christmas joy
If given from the heart!

Hang up the baby’s stocking
Be sure you don’t forget!
The dear little dimpled darling,
She never saw Christmas yet!
But I’ve told her all about it,
And she opened her big blue eyes           ;
And I’m sure she understood it-
She looked so funny and wise.
Dear, what a tiny stocking!
It doesn’t take much to hold
Such little pink toe’s as baby’s
Away from the frost and the cold
But then, for the baby’s Christmas,
It will never do at all.
Why! Santa wouldn’t be looking
For anything half so small.
I know what I will do for the baby.
I’ve thought of the very best plan.
I’ll borrow a stocking of Grandma’s,
The longest that ever I can
And you’ll hang it by mine, dear mother,
Right here in the corner so!
And leave a letter to Santa,
And fasten it in the toe.
Write-this is the baby’s stocking,
That hangs in the corner here.
You never have seen her, Santa,
For she only came this year
But she’s just the blessed’st baby.
And now before you go,
Just cram her stocking with goodies,
From the top clean down to the toe!

The bells in town are ringing,
‘Tis Christmas time, we know       ;
But not a sound of the bells we hear
Out across the shifting snow.
Across the wind-swept prairie,
Where the wild chinook winds blow.

‘Tis Christmas night, and we’re far away
From all we love and know,
But faces are bright, and hearts are light      ;
Outside is the drifting snow.
And we talk, and laugh, and sing with joy,
Out where the chinooks blow.
It’s Christmas night, and they drink a toast
To the loved one, far away                      ;
One to the boys from the sunny South,
And one for the old range ways                  ;
But the one we all love best of all
When they call out “Happy Days.”
‘Tis Christmas night on the old wild range,
And the Northern Lights aglow,
Dance o’er the grim grey cut-banks,
And down on the drifting snow.
And the coyote sneaks by the frozen creeks,
And the wolf calls long and low,
But the toast on the range is “Happy Days,”
Far out where the riders go.

In lollypop land, there’s a peppermint sea
‘Neath the beautiful shade of a chewing gum tree.
The grass that grows there is a spearmint green,
And the blue of the sky is a heaven supreme.
You walk in the sand that is sugary white                    ;
There are candy-tipped stars that shine
down through the night.
In lollypop land there’s a fairy so sweet-
Just a calico queen, all shiny and neat,
A gingerbread house and a rock candy lane
With a red and white fence made of peppermint cane           ;
An orange-flavored moon, by a cotton fluff cloud,
And gay little elves who are happy and proud.
In lollypop land there’s a marshmallow snow,
And the scent of perfume in the breezes that blow.
It’s a little girl’s dream, and a small boy’s delight,
A Santa Claus land from morning till night-
A beautiful smile, and a kind helping hand,
And every day’s Christmas in lollypop land.

I love the smell of Christmas,
along with all the lights.
Log fires in the fire place,
on those cold winter nights.
The smell of Christmas goodies,
that are baked with tender care.
The smell is just the greatest,
there’s nothing to compare.
The evergreen’s so fragrant,
the smell of Christmas season.
Like the hanging of mistletoe,
thats done for a good reason.
The red berries of the holly,
in that arrangement on the table.
Which I’m sure is much better ,
then Christmas in that stable.
Poinsettia’s all around,
to balance off the garland.
Music boxes everyplace,
bought by my sweet darlin’.
Cinnamon and Peppermint,
fills the air thats in our house.
And what is stirring in the night,
is not the Christmas mouse.
Those pies that make me drool,
just sitting there on that shelf.
Is as if they were made special,
for that jolly old Christmas elf.

Christmas time is here again,
Children’s laughter and
Christmas carol’s floating through the air
I close my eyes and try to remember
My very first Christmas.
Presents and toys all around the tree
We all know tonight Santa’s
Coming down the chimney,
But what does Christmas really mean?
Christmas is more than toys or trees
It’s about being with families
And sharing memories.
It is at this time of the year
We are reminded of the true meaning of Christmas
That is the birth of Christ
And on this very special day
I’d like to wish everyone
A very Merry Christmas
And a Happy New Year.

Lady dear, if Fairies may
For a moment lay aside
Cunning tricks and elfish play,
‘Tis at happy Christmas-tide.
We have heard the children say –
Gentle children, whom we love –
Long ago, on Christmas Day,
Came a message from above.
Still, as Christmas-tide comes round,
They remember it again –
Echo still the joyful sound
“Peace on earth, good-will to men!”
Yet the hearts must childlike be
Where such heavenly guests abide:
Unto children, in their glee,
All the year is Christmas-tide!
Thus, forgetting tricks and play
For a moment, Lady dear,
We would wish you, if we may,
Merry Christmas, glad New Year!

See the pretty snowflakes
Falling from the sky                                               ;
On the walk and housetops
Soft and thick they lie.
On the window-ledges
On the branches bare                                               ;
Now how fast they gather,
Filling all the air.
Look into the garden,
Where the grass was green                                          ;
Covered by the snowflakes,
Not a blade is seen.
Now the bare black bushes
All look soft and white.
Every twig is laden-
What a pretty sight!
There’s more, much more, to Christmas Than candlelight and cheer ; It’s the spirit of sweet friendship That brightens all year. It’s thoughtfulness and kindness, It’s hope reborn again, For peace, for understanding, And for goodwill to men!
Let us keep Christmas beautiful
Without a thought of greed,
That it might live forevermore
To fill our every need,
That it shall not be just a day,
But last a lifetime through,
The miracle of Christmastime
That brings God close to you.

Somehow not only for Christmas
But all the long year through,
The joy that you give to others
Is the joy that comes back to you.
And the more you spend in blessing
The poor and lonely and sad,
The more of your heart’s possessing
Returns to make you glad.
The merry family gatherings –
The old, the very young               ;
The strangely lovely way they
Harmonize in carols sung.
For Christmas is tradition time
Traditions that recall
The precious memories down the years,
The sameness of them all.

Until one feels the spirit of Christmas, there is no Christmas. All else is outward display–so much tinsel and decorations. For it isn’t the holly, it isn’t the snow. It isn’t the tree not the firelight’s glow. It’s the warmth that comes to the hearts of men when the Christmas spirit returns again.
Whatever else be lost among the years,
Let us keep Christmas still a shining thing:
Whatever doubts assail us, or what fears,
Let us hold close one day, remembering
Its poignant meaning for the hearts of men.
Let us get back our childlike faith again.
When Christmas bells are swinging above the fields of snow,
We hear sweet voices ringing from lands of long ago,
And etched on vacant places
Are half-forgotten faces
Of friends we used to cherish, and loves we used to know.
When the song of the angel is stilled,
When the star in the sky is gone,
When the kings and princes are home,
When the shepherds are back with their flock,
The work of Christmas begins:
To find the lost–To heal the broken–To feed the hungry–
To release the prisoner–To rebuild the nations–
To bring peace among brothers and sisters–
To make music in the heart.
Your friendship is a glowing ember
Through the year                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ; and each December
From its warm and living spark
We kindle flame against the dark
And with its shining radiance light
Our tree of faith on Christmas night.
Christmas is a holiday for friends,
However they may be, or not, related.
Remember that the three wise kings were strangers
In search of one remote, uncanny dream.
So may we all be far more than we seem,
Together bound for dark and haunting changes,
More lovely for the loves we have created
Along the lonely paths from means to ends,
Stumbling towards that star of Bethlehem.
How lovely ’tis to take this time
To greet our dearest friends,
To wish them health and happiness
Before the old year ends.
Darkness comes late afternoon
And winter lies ahead,
But friendship is a glowing fire
When all seems cold and dead.
Just as in some vacant barn,
Unnoticed in the night,
The whole of human history turns,
So we, too, make things right.
We must keep alive the flame
Though darkness grip the Earth                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ;
For in the love we find in friends
Is our chance for rebirth.
Miracles have a way of making news.
Even skeptics stare at parted seas.
Religious or not–Christians, Muslims, Jews–
Resurrection brings them to their knees!
Years ago, miracles were in vogue:
Christ and Moses wowed the willing crowds                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ;
Holy icons healed both saint and rogue                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ;
Rare wonders were ascribed to cups and shrouds.
In our time miracles are everyday,
So few can hope to grab us, or astound.
The mysteries that clutter up our way
May seem much more perplexing than profound.
And yet life is miraculous: to be
Surpasses any wonder we might see.
Though this may be our Christmas last,
It is a time of cheer.
We dance within a theater vast,
Yet live from year to year.
All that we have shared remains
Within when we are gone,
Just as a house, though long since dust,
Might well remain a home.
And so we lift this glass of joy
Once more on Christmas Eve,
For time ought not such times destroy,
Nor gifts untimely leave.

Christmas is finally here,
Let us go out and spread the cheer,
Let us send out sincere wishes to all those we meet,
May our hearts be filled with purity from underneath.
Merry Xmas to you and your family.

Tis the season of happiness and delight,
Tis the season to sing and dance with all your might.
Tis the season to share not just your belongings, but also love,
Tis the season to thank God Almighty for sending us Baby Jesus from above.
Have a Blessed Christmas!

May your Christmas tree be filled with stocking-full gifts,
May your days be filled with people who gift you an instant lift.
May your kitchen be filled with mountains to delicacies,
May your holidays be flooded with happiness and ecstasies.
Have a lovely Christmas!

I wish you joy all though your holidays,
I wish you good luck that forever stays.
I wish you the love of family and friends,
I wish you happy days that never ever ends.
Merry Christmas to you!

May this Christmas be happy for you,
May you get everything so new,
Good luck from me for days so bright,
Keep calm and have no fright,
Coz Santa is coming your way,
So make the most of it this day,
Merry Christmas and happy New Year!

Oh the Christmas tree so nice,
Please give me everything twice,
May this Christmas you receive everything you desire,
May you reach higher and higher,
Is my prayer for you this Christmas,
Stay blessed and happy this day,
Merry Christmas to you,
And a happy new year to stay!

I can hear the sound of carols,
I can hear the noise of bells,
Can hear the sound of cheer,
As I wish you dear,
This Christmas may you get everything,
You ever wanted in life,
May you don't have to struggle and strive,
Good luck and happiness always,
Merry Christmas and happy New Year!

Christmas comes once a year,
So celebrate it with a good cheer,
Make the most of your time,
Like the ring of sweet chime,
Have a lovely day and too,
Merry Christmas wish for you!

The best memories all the way,
Have your special say today,
Decorate the tree with joy,
Don't forget to enjoy,
Because Christmas is special,
It makes you smile,
Merry Christmas to you!

The temptation of Christmas food,
It just feels so good,
With all your loved ones around,
And, their passion that surrounds,
Makes life so wonderful,
It all looks so beautiful,
Merry Christmas!

Sparkling bright tree this day,
Calm and serene is the voice,
There is serenity around,
In every which voice,
Because it is the special time,
It is the Christmas time,
Merry Christmas!

The snow all over the place,
There is a special space,
For all the Christmas fun,
For all the festivities and one,
So, enjoy your day,
As you celebrate it today,
Merry Christmas!

Magical feel of the season,
Staying happy without any reason,
The spirit of charity in the heart,
For that one perfect part,
Christmas brings so much fun and joy,
A time to celebrate and to enjoy,
In the spirit of Christmas,
Merry Christmas and a happy new year!

Christmas is a special gift,
This brings smile on the face,
Awesome time with loved ones,
And that snow and glaze,
Christmas is truly special,
With all the love around,
A special time with love that surrounds,
Merry Christmas and a happy new year!

Hey the Christmas season is here,
So gear up with your shopping dose,
Do up your Christmas tree,
It's for you to feel in the air,
It's for you to see,
Because it is the season of peace,
When all your worries will cease,
So, be ready for that fun,
Merry Christmas and a happy new year!

May I wish that you have happy holidays!
Spend your time with family and friends,
Spread the message of love,
Coz there is nothing to pretend,
Christmas is pure and feels like bliss,
With that one special kiss,
To all your loved ones,
Soak in the Christmas joy,
Merry Christmas and a happy new year!

The Santa is on his way
With lots of love and gifts galore,
The bond of family gathering,
And fun a little more,
Helping people with your will,
There is a special snowy chill,
In the air,
Stay blessed this Christmas,
As you prepare for the fun,
Merry Christmas and a happy new year!

Christmas is so much fun in life,
You are so happy                      ; it looks on your face,
That contentment and that grace,
Christmas is really a special time,
A time to live for others,
A time to unwind,
It is the Christmas time,
Merry Christmas and a happy new year!

A pound of fun
And a pound of joy
Make a nice present
For a girl or boy.
A cup of goodness
And a cup of love
Really are gifts
From heaven above.
A pinch of holly
And a pinch of pine -
Now, we know
It's Christmas time.

I wish that dear old Santa
Would take me for a ride       ;
I'd like to drive his reindeer
And sit by Santa's side.
I'd like to help old Santa
Find all the girls and boys,
So each one might be happy
With Christmas books and toys.
Jingle, jingle, jingle,
Christmas toys we'd bring      ;
Jingle, jingle, jingle,
How the bells would ring!

Hang up the stockings.
Decorate the tree.
Presents placed perfectly.
What a sight to see!
Milk and cookies are out,
Kids are tucked in tight.
There’s so much to do
On Christmas Eve night!
Before you take a snooze
And dream of the next day,
Don’t forget some food
For the friends who pull the sleigh!
You see, reindeer need snacks, too
A little love and fun
To help Santa through the night,
And get the important job done!

A chubby little snowman
Had a carrot nose.
Along came a bunny,
And what do you suppose?
That hungry little bunny
Looking for some lunch,
Grabbed that snowman’s nose,
Nibble, nibble, crunch!

The golden Christmas stars shine down
With a cheerful Christmas glow,
And twinkle a Yuletide message
To the busy world below                 ;
They tell of the peace and good will
The Christmas time brings to earth,
The peace and good will all should feel
At this season of joy and mirth.

Five little reindeer playing in the snow
The first one said, “Can you see my nose glow?”
The second one said, “Listen to me sing!”
The third one said, “I can hear the bells ring.”
The fourth one said, “Let’s eat the pie!”
The fifth one said, “I’m ready to fly.”
Then clomp went their hooves
And the snow fell white
As the five little reindeer flew out of sight.

Tonight's my first night as a watchdog,
And here it is Christmas Eve.
The children are sleeping all cozy upstairs,
while I'm guardin' the stockin's and tree.

And the Grinch, with his Grinch-feet ice cold in the snow,
Stood puzzling and puzzling, how could it be so?
It came without ribbons. It came without tags.
It came without packages, boxes or bags.
And he puzzled and puzzled ’till his puzzler was sore.
Then the Grinch thought of something he hadn’t before.
What if Christmas, he thought, doesn’t come from a store?
What if Christmas, perhaps, means a little bit more?

Oh, I wish I was an angel on the tree
Oh, I wish I was an angel on the tree
I’d give every girl and boy
Lots of Christmas peace and joy
Oh, I wish I was an angel on the tree

A holly wreath hung on the door,
Or presents strewn across the floor,
Tall Christmas tree with baubles bright,
Which fills our hearts with such delight.
Carols sung out in the snow,
A Snowman built with eyes aglow,
Crackers pulled, a song to sing,
Candles lit, and bells that ring.
Roasted turkey, which tastes divine,
Rich fruit cake, with an iced design,
No, the most important reminder of all,
Is the birth of a babe in an Ox’s stall.

Cookies baking in the kitchen,
The smell floats through the air             ;
Mom is making Christmas
with her usual merry flair
The house she gaily decorated,
Each gift she stiched with love,
And we’ll gather around the Christmas tree
for an evening of old-fashioned fun
This evening she’ll sing a carol for us
With her angel’s voice
Yes, Mom is making Christmas,
A true reason to rejoice.

I made myself a snowball
As perfect as could be,
I thought I'd keep it as a pet,
And let it sleep with me.
I made it some pajamas,
And a pillow for its head,
Then last night it ran away,
But first—it wet the bed!
Frosty days and ice-still nights,
Fir trees trimmed with tiny lights,
Sound of sleigh bells in the snow,
That was Christmas long ago.
Tykes on sleds and shouts of glee,
Icy-window filigree,
Sugarplums and candle glow,
Part of Christmas long ago.
Footsteps stealthy on the stair,
Sweet-voiced carols in the air,
Stocking hanging in a row,
Tell of Christmas long ago.
Starry nights so still and blue,
Good friends calling out to you,
Life, so fact, will always slow…
For dreams of Christmas long ago.

Christmas is more than a day in December
It’s all of those things that we love to remember
It's carolers singing familiar refrains
Bright coloured stockings and shiny toy trains
Streamers of tinsel and glass satin balls
Laughter that rings through the house and its halls
Christmas is more than a day in December
It's the magic and the love
That we’ll always remember

I took a lick
Of a peppermint stick
And oh it tasted yummy!
It used to be
On the Christmas tree
But now it’s in my tummy!

We are a band of carollers,
We march through frost and snow,
But care not for the weather
As on our way we go.
At every hall or cottage
That stands upon our way,
We stop to give the people
Best wishes for the day.
We pray a merry Christmas,
Made bright by Christmas cheer,
With peace, and hope, and gladness
And all they may hold dear.
And for all those that happen
To pass us on our way
We have a smile, and wish them
A merry Christmas-day.

Once upon a Christmastime
The angels sang with joy,
To herald the coming
Of a precious Baby Boy.
Their shouting filled the heavens
And shook the mighty Earth,
And sent the shepherds searching
For the place of His glorious birth.
And when they found the manger
And gazed upon His face,
They knelt in adoration
In that low and holy place.
Oh, Father, fill me with the love
That filled the Earth that night,
A love that reaches throughout the world
And fills it with Your light.

When eggnog’s generously filling
Each and every Christmas mug
And siblings tour miles and miles
To greet you with a hug
There’s scarce else I’ll be wishing
Than this simple little prayer
Of peace and calm and blessings much
On Christmas Day this year.

I heard the bells on Christmas Day
Their old, familiar carols play,
And wild and sweet
The words repeat
Of peace on earth, good-will to men!

All I ever wanted for Christmas is you,
Being here around me to share             ;
In the joy of the season is enough.
It is not all about the clothes,
Neither is it all about the drinks        ;
Just having you around is enough.
Merry Christmas to you my love,
May this season brings us everlasting joy ;

Christmas shall always be forever,
And never a one-day affair to predict                  ;
It is to us a joy to celebrate the King,
The One who gave his life for mankind.
Christmas comes with the sharing of love,
The very love to share and give back to humanity       ;
This to us shall ever be a symbol of our togetherness,
As we remember the birth of the One who loved us all.
Christmas is here now let the bells ring,
Light up your minds and let joy illuminate             ;
Through the surface of the earth with the smile,
That brings everlasting brightness to our life.
May the good you do for others,
Bring all the happiness that you ever desire           ;
May you share in the joy that gives you hope,
To celebrate every moment of the day.
The happy story of love, it is the joy of Christmas,
It comes with it the magical feeling of trust          ;
Even after the festive season is gone,
That Christmas is forever and never a day’s affair.

Who is it stands on the polished stair,
A merry, laughing, winsome maid,
From the Christmas rose in her golden hair
To the high-heeled slippers of spangled suède
A glance, half daring and half afraid,
Gleams from her roguish eyes downcast           ;
Already the vision begins to fade—
'Tis only a ghost of a Christmas Past.
Who is it sits in that high-backed chair,
Quaintly in ruff and patch arrayed,
With a mockery gay of a stately air
As she rustles the folds of her old brocade,—
Merriest heart at the masquerade?
Ah, but the picture is passing fast
Back to the darkness from which it strayed—
'Tis only a ghost of a Christmas Past.
Who is it whirls in a ball-room's glare,
Her soft white hand on my shoulder laid,
Like a radiant lily, tall and fair,
While the violins in the corner played
The wailing strains of the Serenade?
Oh, lovely vision, too sweet to last—
E'en now my fancy it will evade—
'Tis only a ghost of a Christmas Past.
'Tis only a ghost of a Christmas Past.

Baby, baby dear,
Earth and heaven are near
Now, for heaven is here.
Heaven is every place
Where your flower-sweet face
Fills our eyes with grace.
Till your own eyes deign
Earth a glance again,
Earth and heaven are twain.
Now your sleep is done,
Shine, and show the sun
Earth and heaven are one.

HAD I the power
To cast a bell that should from some grand tower,
At the first Christmas hour,
Outring,
And fling
A jubilant message wide,
The forgëd metals should be thus allied:—
No iron Pride,
But soft Humility, and rich-veined Hope
Cleft from a sunny slope                          ;
And there should be
White Charity,
And silvery Love, that knows not Doubt nor Fear,
To make the peal more clear                       ;
And then to firmly fix the fine alloy,
There should be Joy!

This gospel sang the angels bright:
Lord Jhesu shall be born this night       ;
Born not in house nor yet in hall,
Wrapped not in purple nor in pall,
Rocked not in silver, neither gold        ;
This word the angels sang of old          ;
Nor christened with white wine nor red    ;
This word of old the angels said
Of Him which holdeth in His hand
The strong sea and green land.
This thrice and four times happy night—
These tidings sang the angels bright—
Forlorn, betwixen ear and horn,
A babe shall Jhesu Lord be born,
A weeping babe in all the cold            ;—
This word the angels sang of old—
And wisps of hay shall be his bed         ;
This word of old the angels said
Of Him which keepeth in His hand
The strong sea and green land.
O babe and Lord, Thou Jhesu bright,—
Let all and some now sing this night—
Betwixt our sorrow and our sin,
Be thou new-born our hearts within        ;
New-born, dear babe and little King,
So letten some and all men sing—
To wipe for us our tears away!
This night so letten all men say
Of Him which spake, and lo! they be—
The green land and strong sea.

This is the season, when, agreeably to custom,
That it was an honour to send wassail
By the old people who were happy
In their time, and loved pleasure                  ;
And we are now purposing
To be like them, every one merry:
Merry and foolish, youths are wont to be,
Being reproached for squandering abroad.
I know that every mirth will end
Too soon of itself                                 ;
Before it is ended, here comes
The wassail of Mary, for the sake of the time:
Name1 place the maid immediately
In the chair before us                             ;
And let every body in the house be content that we
May drink wassail to virginity,
To remember the time, in faithfulness,
When fair Mary was at the sacrifice,
After the birth to her of a son,
Who delivered every one, through his good will,
From their sins, without doubt.
Should there be an inquiry who made the carol,
He is a man whose trust is fully on God,
That he shall go to heaven to the effulgent Mary,
Towards filling the orders where she also is.

In Flanders on the Christmas morn
The trenched foemen lay,
the German and the Briton born,
And it was Christmas Day.
The red sun rose on fields accurst,
The gray fog fled away                     ;
But neither cared to fire the first,
For it was Christmas Day!
They called from each to each across
The hideous disarray,
For terrible has been their loss:
"Oh, this is Christmas Day!"
Their rifles all they set aside,
One impulse to obey                        ;
'Twas just the men on either side,
Just men — and Christmas Day.
They dug the graves for all their dead
And over them did pray:
And Englishmen and Germans said:
"How strange a Christmas Day!"
Between the trenches then they met,
Shook hands, and e'en did play
At games on which their hearts were set
On happy Christmas Day.
Not all the emperors and kings,
Financiers and they
Who rule us could prevent these things —
For it was Christmas Day.
Oh ye who read this truthful rime
From Flanders, kneel and say:
God speed the time when every day
Shall be as Christmas Day.

Sweet music, sweeter far
Than any song is sweet:
Sweet music, heavenly rare,
Mine ears, O peers, doth greet.
You gentle flocks, whose fleeces, pearled with dew,
Resemble heaven, whom golden drops make bright,
Listen, O listen, now, O not to you
Our pipes make sport to shorten weary night         ;
But voices most divine
Make blissful harmony:
Voices that seem to shine,
For what else clears the sky?
Tunes can we hear, but not the singers see,
The tunes divine, and so the singers be.

Lo, how the firmament
Within an azure fold
The flock of stars hath pent,
That we might them behold                       ;
Yet from their beams proceedeth not this light,
Nor can their crystals such reflection give.
What then doth make the element so bright?
The heavens are come down upon earth to live.
But hearken to the song,
Glory to glory's king,
And peace all men among,
These quiristers do sing.
Angels they are, as also (Shepherds) he
Whom in our fear we do admire to see.
Let not amazement blind
Your souls, said he, annoy:
To you and all mankind
My message bringeth joy.
For lo, the world's great Shepherd now is born
A blessed babe, an infant full of power:
After long night uprisen is the morn,
Renowning Bethl'em in the Saviour.
Sprung is the perfect day,
By prophets seen afar:
Sprung is the mirthful May,
Which winter cannot mar.
In David's city doth this sun appear
Clouded in flesh, yet, shepherds, sit we here?

There is heard a hymn when the panes are dim,
And never before or again,
When the nights are strong with a darkness long,
And the dark is alive with rain.
Never we know but in sleet and in snow,
The place where the great fires are,
That the midst of the earth is a raging mirth
And the heart of the earth a star.
And at night we win to the ancient inn
Where the child in the frost is furled,
We follow the feet where all souls meet
At the inn at the end of the world.
The gods lie dead where the leaves lie red,
For the flame of the sun is flown,
The gods lie cold where the leaves lie gold,
And a Child comes forth alone.

My counterpane is soft as silk,
My blankets white as creamy milk.
The hay was soft to Him, I know,
Our little Lord of long ago.
Above the roofs the pigeons fly
In silver wheels across the sky.
The stable-doves they cooed to them,
Mary and Christ in Bethlehem.
Bright shines the sun across the drifts,
And bright upon my Christmas gifts.
They brought Him incense, myrrh, and gold,
Our little Lord who lived of old.
Oh, soft and clear our mother sings
Of Christmas joys and Christmas things.
God's holy angels sang to them,
Mary and Christ in Bethlehem.
Our hearts they hold all Christmas dear,
And earth seems sweet and heaven seems near,
Oh, heaven was in His sight, I know,
That little Child of long ago.

The trees are hung with crystal lamps, the world lies still and white,
And the myriad little twinkling stars are sharp with keener light      ;
The moon sails up the frost-clear sky and silvers all the snow,
As she did, perchance, that Christmas night, two thousand years ago!
Good people, are you waking?
Give us food and give us wine,
For the sake of blessed Mary
And her Infant Son Divine,
Who was born the world's Redeemer—
A Saviour—yours and mine!
Long ago angelic harpers sang the song we sing to-day,
And the drowsy folk of Bethlehem may have listened as they lay!
But eager shepherds left their flocks, and o'er the desert wild
The kingly sages journeyed to adore the Holy Child!
Has any man a quarrel?
Has another used you ill?
The friendly word you meant to say,
Is that unspoken still?—
Then, remember, 'twas the Angels
Brought glad tidings of good will!
Of all the gifts of Christmas, are you fain to win the best?
Lo! the Christ-child still is waiting Himself to be your guest         ;
No lot so high or lowly but He will take His part,
If you do but bid Him welcome to a clean and tender heart.
Are you sleeping, are you waking?
To the Manger haste away,
And you shall see a wond'rous sight
Amid the straw and hay.—
'Tis Love Himself Incarnate
As on this Christmas Day!

The shepherds went their hasty way,
And found the lowly stable shed
Where the virgin mother lay:
And now they checked their eager trend,
For, to the Babe that at her bosom clung,
A mother's song the virgin mother sung.
They told her how a glorious light,
Streaming from a heavenly throng,
Around them shone, suspending night!
While, sweeter than a mother's song,
Blest angels heralded the Saviour's birth,
Glory to God on high! And peace on earth.
She listened to the tale divine,
And closer still the Babe she pressed:
And while she cried, The Babe is mine!
The milk rushed faster to her breast:
Joy rose within her, like a summer's morn              ;
Peace, peace on earth! the Prince of Peace is born.
Thou mother of the Prince of Peace,
Poor, simple, and of low estate,
That strife should vanish, battle cease,
O why should this thy soul elate?
Sweet music's loudest note, the poet's story, --
Didst thou ne'er love to hear of fame and glory?
And is not war a youthful king,
A stately hero clad in mail?
Beneath his footsteps laurels spring                   ;
Him earth's majestic monarchs hail
Their friend, their playmate! and his bold bright eye
Compels the maiden's love-confessing sigh.
“Tell this in some more courtly scene,
To maids and youths in robes of state!
I am a woman poor and mean,
And, therefore, is my soul elate.
War is a ruffian, all with guilt defiled,
That from the aged father tears his child!
“A murderous fiend, by fiends adored,
He kills the sire and starves the son                  ;
The husband kills, and from her board
Steals all his widow's toil had won!
Plunders God's world of beauty                         ; rends away
All safety from the night, all comfort from the day.
“Then wisely is my soul elate,
That strife should vanish, battle cease.
I'm poor and of a low estate,
The mother of the Prince of Peace.
Joy rises in me, like a summer's morn:
Peace, peace on earth, the Prince of Peace is born.”

They leave the land of gems and gold,
The shining portals of the East            ;
For Him, the woman's Seed foretold,
They leave the revel and the feast.
To earth their sceptres they have cast,
And crowns by kings ancestral worn         ;
They track the lonely Syrian waste         ;
They kneel before the Babe new born.
O happy eyes that saw Him first            ;
O happy lips that kissed His feet:
Earth slakes at last her ancient thirst    ;
With Eden's joy her pulses beat.
True kings are those who thus forsake
Their kingdoms for the Eternal King        ;
Serpent, her foot is on thy neck           ;
Herod, thou writhest, but canst not sting.
He, He is King, and He alone
Who lifts that infant hand to bless        ;
Who makes His mother's knee His throne,
Yet rules the starry wilderness.

I care not for Spring                                ; on his fickle wing
Let the blossoms and buds be borne:
He woos them amain with his treacherous rain,
And he scatters them ere the morn.
An inconstant elf, he knows not himself,
Or his own changing mind an hour,
He'll smile in your face, and, with wry grimace,
He'll wither your youngest flower.
Let the summer sun to his bright home run,
He shall never be sought by me                       ;
When he's dimmed by a cloud I can laugh aloud,
And care not how sulky he be                         ;
For his darling child is the madness wild
That sports in fierce fever's train                  ;
And when love is too strong, it don't last long,
As many have found to their pain.
A mild harvest night, by the tranquil light
Of the modest and gentle moon,
Has a far sweeter sheen for me, I ween,
Than the broad and unblushing noon,
But every leaf awakens my grief,
As it lieth beneath the tree                         ;
So let Autumn air be never so fair,
It by no means agrees with me.
But my song I troll out, for Christmas stout,
The hearty, the true, and the bold                   ;
A bumper I drain, and with might and main
Give three cheers for this Christmas old.
We'll usher him in with a merry din
That shall gladden his joyous heart,
And we'll keep him up while there's bite or sup,
And in fellowship good, we'll part.
In his fine honest pride, he scorns to hide
One jot of his hard-weather scars                    ;
They're no disgrace, for there's much the same trace
On the cheeks of our bravest tars.
Then again I sing 'till the roof doth ring,
And it echoes from wall to wall—
To the stout old wight, fair welcome to-night,
As the King of the Seasons all!

I hear along our street
Pass the minstrel throngs            ;
Hark! they play so sweet,
On their hautboys, Christmas Songs!
Let us by the fire
Ever higher
Sing them till the night expire!
In December ring
Every day the chimes                 ;
Loud the gleemen sing
In the streets their merry rhymes.
Let us by the fire
Ever higher
Sing them till the night expire!
Shepherds at the grange,
Where the Babe was born,
Sang, with many a change,
Christmas carols until morn.
Let us by the fire
Ever higher
Sing them till the night expire!
These good people sang
Songs devout and sweet               ;
While the rafters rang,
There they stood with freezing feet.
Let us by the fire
Ever higher
Sing them till the night expire!
Nuns in frigid cells
At this holy tide,
For want of something else,
Christmas songs at times have tried.
Let us by the fire
Ever higher
Sing them till the night expire!
Washerwomen old,
To the sound they beat,
Sing by rivers cold,
With uncovered heads and feet.
Let us by the fire
Ever higher
Sing them till the night expire!
Who by the fireside stands
Stamps his feet and sings            ;
But he who blows his hands
Not so gay a carol brings,
Let us by the fire
Ever higher
Sing them till the night expire!

"What means this glory round our feet,"
The Magi mused, "more bright than morn?"
And voices chanted clear and sweet,
"To-day the Prince of Peace is born!"
"What means that star," the Shepherds said,
"That brightens through the rocky glen?"
And angels, answering overhead,
Sang, "Peace on earth, good-will to men!"
'Tis eighteen hundred years and more
Since those sweet oracles were dumb            ;
We wait for Him, like them of yore             ;
Alas, He seems so slow to come!
But it was said, in words of gold,
No time or sorrow e'er shall dim,
That little children might be bold
In perfect trust to come to Him.
All round about our feet shall shine
A light like that the wise men saw,
If we our loving wills incline
To that sweet Life which is the Law.
So shall we learn to understand
The simple faith of shepherds then,
And, clasping kindly hand in hand,
Sing, "Peace on earth, good-will to men!"
But they who do their souls no wrong,
But keep at eve the faith of morn,
Shall daily hear the angel-song,
"To-day the Prince of Peace is born!"
SO, now is come our ioyfulst Feast             ;
Let euery man be iolly.
Each Roome, with Yuie leaues is drest,
And euery Post, with Holly.
Though some Churles at our mirth repine,
Round your forheads Garlands twine,
Drowne sorrow in a Cup of Wine.
And let vs all be merry.
Now, all our Neighbours Chimneys smoke,
And Christmas blocks are burning               ;
The, Ouens, they with bakt meats choke,
And all their Spits are turning.
Without the doore, let sorrow lie:
And, if for cold, it hap to die,
Weele bury't in a Christmas Pye.
And euermore be merry.
Now, euery Lad is wondrous trimm,
And no man minds his Labour.
Our Lasses haue prouided them,
A Bag-pipe, and a Tabor.
Young men, and Mayds, and Girles & Boyes,
Ciue life, to one ano [...] hers Ioyes:
And, you anon shall by their noyse,
Perceiue that they are merry.
Ranke Misers now, doe sparing shun:
Their Hall of Musicke soundeth:
And, Dogs, thence with whole shoulders run,
So, all things there aboundeth.
The Countrey-folke, themselues aduance         ;
For Crowdy-Mutton's come out of France:
And Iack shall pipe, and Iyll shall daunce,
And all the Towne be merry.
Ned Swash hath fetcht his Bands from pawne,
And all his best Apparell.
Brisk Nell hath bought a Ruffe of Lawne,
With droppings of the Barrell.
And those that hardly all the yeare
Had Bread to eat, or Raggs to weare,
Will haue both Clothes, and daintie fare:
And all the day be merry.
Now poore men to the Iustices,
With Capons make their arrants,
And if they hap to faile of these,
They plague them with their Warrants.
But now they feed them with good cheere,
And what they want, they take in Beere:
For, Christmas comes but once a yeare:
And then they shall be merry.
Good Farmours, in the Countrey, nurse
The poore, that else were vndone.
Some Land-lords, spend their money worse,
On Lust, and Pride at London.
There, the Roysters they doe play              ;
Drabb and Dice their Landt away,
Which may be ours, another day:
And therefore lets be merry.
The Clyent now his suit forbeares,
The Prisoners heart is eased.
The Debtor drinks away his cares,
And, for the time is pleased.
Though others Purses be more fat,
Why should we pine or grieue at that?
Hang sorrow, care will kill a Cat.
And therefore lets be merry.
Harke, how the Wagges, abrode doe call
Each other foorth to rambling.
Anon, youle see them in the Hall,
For Nutts, and Apples scambling.
Harke, how the Roofes with laughters sound!
Annon they'l thinke the house goes round:
For, they the Sellars depth haue found.
And, there they will be merry.
The VVenches with their Wassell-Bowles,
About the Streets are singing:
The Boyes are come to catch the Owles,
The Wild-mare, in is bringing.
Our Kitchin-Boy hath broke his Boxe,
And, to the dealing of the Oxe,
Our honest neighbours come by flocks,
And, here, they will be merry.
Now Kings and Queenes, poore Sheep-cotes haue,
And mate with euery body:
The honest, now, may play the knaue,
And wise men play at Noddy.
Some Youths will now a Mumming goe             ;
Some others play at Rowland-hoe,
And, twenty other Gameboyes moe:
Because they will be merry.
Then wherefore in these merry daies,
Should we I pray, be duller?
No                                             ; let vs sing some Roundelayes,
To make our mirth the fuller.
And, wh [...]lest thus inspir'd we sing,
Let all the Streets with ecchoes ring:
Woods, and Hills, and euery thing,
Beare witnesse we are merry.

Good news from heaven the angels bring,
Glad tidings to the earth they sing:
To us this day a child is given,
To crown us with the joy of heaven.
This is the Christ, our God and Lord,
Who in all need shall aid afford:
He will Himself our Saviour be,
From sin and sorrow set us free.
To us that blessedness He brings,
Which from the Father's bounty springs:
That in the heavenly realm we may
With Him enjoy eternal day.
All hail, Thou noble Guest, this morn,
Whose love did not the sinner scorn!
In my distress Thou cam'st to me:
What thanks shall I return to Thee?
Were earth a thousand times as fair,
Beset with gold and jewels rare,
She yet were far too poor to be
A narrow cradle, Lord, for Thee.
Ah, dearest Jesus, Holy Child!
Make Thee a bed, soft, undefiled,
Within my heart, that it may be
A quiet chamber kept for Thee.
Praise God upon His heavenly throne,
Who gave to us His only Son:
For this His hosts, on joyful wing,
A blest New Year of mercy sing.

In the fields where, long ago,
Dropping tears, amid the leaves,
Ruth's young feet went to and fro,
Binding up the scattered sheaves,
In the field that heard the voice
Of Judea's shepherd King,
Still the gleaners may rejoice,
Still the reapers shout and sing.
For each mount and vale and plain
Felt the touch of holier feet.
Then the gleaners of the grain
Heard, in voices full and sweet,
"Peace on earth, good will to men,"
Ring from angel lips afar,
While, o'er every glade and glen,
Broke the light of Bethlehem's star.
Star of hope to souls in night,
Star of peace above our strife,
Guiding, where the gates of death
Ope to fields of endless life.
Wanderer from the nightly throng
Which the eastern heavens gem         ;
Guided, by an angel's song,
To the Babe of Bethlehem.
Not Judea's hills alone
Have earth's weary gleaners trod,
Not to heirs of David's throne
Is it given to "reign with God."
But where'er on His green earth
Heavenly faith and longing are,
Heavenly hope and life have birth,
'Neath the smile of Bethlehem's star.
In each lowly heart or home,
By each love-watched cradle-bed,
Where we rest, or where we roam,
Still its changeless light is shed.
In its beams each quickened heart,
Howe'er saddened or denied,
Keeps one little place apart
For the Hebrew mother's Child.
And that inner temple fair
May be holier ground than this,
Hallowed by the pilgrim's prayer,
Warmed by many a pilgrim's kiss.
In its shadow still and dim,
Where our holiest longings are,
Rings forever Bethlehem's hymn,
Shines forever Bethlehem's star.

It was the calm and silent night!
Seven hundred years and fifty-three
Had Rome been growing up to might,
And now was queen of land and sea.
No sound was heard of clashing wars—
Peace brooded o'er the hushed domain:
Apollo, Pallas, Jove and Mars
Held undisturbed their ancient reign,
In the solemn midnight,
Centuries ago.
'Twas in the calm and silent night!
The senator of haughty Rome
Impatient, urged his chariot's flight,
From lordly revel rolling home:
Triumphal arches, gleaming, swell
His breast with thoughts of boundless sway:
What recked the Roman what befell
A paltry province far away,
In the solemn midnight,
Centuries ago?
Within that province far away
Went plodding home a weary boor             ;
A streak of light before him lay,
Falling through a half shut stable-door
Across his path. He passed—for naught
Told what was going on within:
How keen the stars, his only thought—
The air how calm, and cold and thin
In the solemn midnight,
Centuries ago!
Oh, strange indifference! low and high
Drowsed over common joys and cares          ;
The earth was still — but knew not why,
The world was listening — unawares.
How calm a moment may precede
One that shall thrill the world forever!
To that still moment, none would heed,
Man's doom was linked no more to sever —
In the solemn midnight,
Centuries ago!
It is the calm and silent night!
A thousand bells ring out, and throw
Their joyous peals abroad, and smite
The darkness — charmed and holy now!
The night that erst no name had worn,
To it a happy name is given                 ;
For in that stable lay, new-born,
The peaceful Prince of Earth and Heaven,
In the solemn midnight,
Centuries ago!

Tell me what is this innumerable throng
Singing in the heavens a loud angelic song?
These are they who come with swift and shining feet
From round about the throne of God the Lord of Light to greet.
Oh, who are these that hasten beneath the starry sky,
As if with joyful tidings that through the world shall fly?
The faithful shepherds these, who greatly were afeared
When, as they watched their flocks by night, the heavenly host appeared.
Who are these that follow across the hills of night
A star that westward hurries along the fields of light?
Three wise men from the east who myrrh and treasure bring
To lay them at the feet of him their Lord and Christ and King.
What babe new-born is this that in a manger cries?
Near on her lowly bed his happy mother lies.
Oh, see the air is shaken with white and heavenly wings--
This is the Lord of all the earth, this is the King of kings.

'Tis Christmas, and the North wind blows; 'twas two years yesterday
Since from the Lusitania's bows I looked o'er Table Bay,
A tripper round the narrow world, a pilgrim of the main,
Expecting when her sails unfurled to start for home again.
'Tis Christmas, and the North wind blows                             ; to-day our hearts are one,
Though you are 'mid the English snows and I in Austral sun           ;
You, when you hear the Northern blast, pile high a mightier fire,
Our ladies cower until it's past in lawn and lace attire.
I fancy I can picture you upon this Christmas night,
Just sitting as you used to do, the laughter at its height           ;
And then a sudden, silent pause intruding on your glee,
And kind eyes glistening because you chanced to think of me.
This morning when I woke and knew 'twas Christmas come again,
I almost fancied I could view white rime upon the pane,
And hear the ringing of the wheels upon the frosty ground,
And see the drip that downward steals in icy casket bound.
I daresay you'll be on the lake, or sliding on the snow,
And breathing on your hands to make the circulation flow,
Nestling your nose among the furs of which your boa's made,—
The Fahrenheit here registers a hundred in the shade.
It is not quite a Christmas here with this unclouded sky,
This pure transparent atmosphere, this sun mid-heaven-high           ;
To see the rose upon the bush, young leaves upon the trees,
And hear the forest's summer hush or the low hum of bees.
But cold winds bring not Christmastide, nor budding roses June,
And when it's night upon your side we're basking in the noon.
Kind hearts make Christmas—June can bring blue sky or clouds above ;
The only universal spring is that which comes of love.
And so it's Christmas in the South as on the North-sea coasts,
Though we are staved with summer-drouth and you with winter frosts.
And we shall have our roast beef here, and think of you the while,
Though all the watery hemisphere cuts off the mother isle.
Feel sure that we shall think of you, we who have wandered forth,
And many a million thoughts will go to-day from south to north       ;
Old heads will muse on churches old, where bells will ring to-day—
The very bells, perchance, which tolled their fathers to the clay.
And now, good-night! and I shall dream that I am with you all,
Watching the ruddy embers gleam athwart the panelled hall            ;
Nor care I if I dream or not, though severed by the foam,
My heart is always in the spot which was my childhood's home.

Sleep, baby, sleep! The Mother sings:
Heaven's angels kneel and fold their wings.
Sleep, baby, sleep!
With swathes of scented hay Thy bed
By Mary's hand at eve was spread.
Sleep, baby, sleep!
At midnight came the shepherds, they
Whom seraphs wakened by the way.
Sleep, baby, sleep!
And three kings from the East afar,
Ere dawn came, guided by the star.
Sleep, baby, sleep!
They brought Thee gifts of gold and gems,
Pure orient pearls, rich diadems.
Sleep, baby, sleep!
Thou who liest slumbering there,
Art King of Kings, earth, ocean, air.
Sleep, baby, sleep!
Sleep, baby, sleep! The shepherds sing:
Through heaven, through earth, hosannas ring.
Sleep, baby, sleep!

So, now is come our joyful'st feast,
Let every man be jolly                      ;
Each room with ivy-leaves is drest,
And every post with holly.
Though some churls at our mirth repine,
Round your foreheads garlands twine         ;
Drown sorrow in a cup of wine,
And let us all be merry.
Now all our neighbors' chimneys smoke,
And Christmas logs are burning              ;
Their ovens they with baked meats choke,
And all their spits are turning.
Without the door let sorrow lie             ;
And if for cold it hap to die,
We'll bury 't in a Christmas-pie,
And evermore be merry.
Now every lad is wondrous trim,
And no man minds his labor                  ;
Our lasses have provided them
A bagpipe and a tabor                       ;
Young men and maids, and girls and boys,
Give life to one another's joys             ;
And you anon shall by their noise
Perceive that they are merry.
Rank misers now do sparing shun             ;
Their hall of music soundeth                ;
And dogs thence with whole shoulders run,
So all things there aboundeth.
The country folks themselves advance
For crowdy-mutton's come out of France      ;
And Jack shall pipe, and Jill shall dance,
And all the town be merry.
Ned Squash has fetched his bands from pawn,
And all his best apparel                    ;
Brisk Ned hath bought a ruff of lawn
With droppings of the barrel                ;
And those that hardly all the year
Had bread to eat or rags to wear
Will have both clothes and dainty fare,
And all the day be merry.
Now poor men to the justices
With capons make their arrants              ;
And if they hap to fail of these,
They plague them with their warrants:
But now they feed them with good cheer,
And what they want they take in beer        ;
For Christmas comes but once a year,
And then they shall be merry.
Good farmers in the country nurse
The poor that else were undone              ;
Some landlords spend their money worse
On lust and pride at London.
There the roysters they do play,
Drab and dice their lands away,
Which may be ours another day               ;
And therefore let's be merry.
The client now his suit forbears,
The prisoner's heart is eased               ;
The debtor drinks away his cares,
And for the time is pleased.
Though other purses be more fat,
Why should we pine or grieve at that?
Hang sorrow! care will kill a cat,
And therefore let's be merry.
Hark! how the wags abroad do call
Each other forth to rambling:
Anon you'll see them in the hall
For nuts and apples scrambling.
Hark! how the roofs with laughter sound!
Anon they'll think the house goes round:
For they the cellar's depth have found,
And there they will be merry.
The wenches with their wassail bowls,
About the streets are singing               ;
The boys are come to catch the owls,
The wild mare in is bringing.
Our kitchen-boy hath broke his box,
And to the dealing of the ox
Our honest neighbors come by flocks,
And here they will be merry.
Now kings and queens poor sheep-cotes have,
And mate with everybody                     ;
The honest now may play the knave,
And wise men play at noddy.
Some youths will now a mumming go,
Some others play at Rowland-ho,
And twenty other gameboys mo,
Because they will be merry.
Then wherefore in these merry days,
Should we, I pray, be duller?
No, let us sing some roundelays
To make our mirth the fuller.
And, whilst thus inspired, we sing,
Let all the streets with echoes ring,
Woods, and hills, and everything
Bear witness we are merry.

Blow, wind, blow,
Sing through yard and shroud            ;
Pipe it shrilly and loud,
Aloft as well as below                  ;
Sing in my sailor's ear
The song I sing to you,
"Come home, my sailor true,
For Christmas that comes so near."
Go, wind, go,
Hurry his home-bound sail,
Through gusts that are edged with hail,
Through winter, and sleet, and snow     ;
Song, in my sailor's ear,
Your shrilling and moans shall be,
For he knows they sing him to me
And Christmas that comes so near.

When mother-love makes all things bright,
When joy comes with the morning light,
When children gather round their tree,
Thou Christmas Babe,
We sing of Thee!
When manhood's brows are bent in thought,
To learn what men of old have taught,
When eager hands seek wisdom's key,
Wise Temple Child,
We learn of Thee!
When doubts assail, and perils fright,
When, groping blindly in the night,
We strive to read life's mystery,
Man of the Mount,
We turn to Thee!
When shadows of the valley fall,
When sin and death the soul appall,
One light we through the darkness see—
Christ on the Cross,
We cry to Thee!
And when the world shall pass away,
And dawns at length the perfect day,
In glory shall our souls made free,
Thou God enthroned,
Then worship Thee.

Sweet dreams, form a shade
O’er my lovely infant’s head!
Sweet dreams of pleasant streams
By happy, silent, moony beams!
Sweet Sleep, with soft down
Weave thy brows an infant crown!
Sweet Sleep, angel mild,
Hover o’er my happy child!
Sweet smiles, in the night
Hover over my delight!
Sweet smiles, mother’s smiles,
All the livelong night beguiles.
Sweet moans, dovelike sighs,
Chase not slumber from thy eyes!
Sweet moans, sweeter smiles,
All the dovelike moans beguiles.
Sleep, sleep, happy child!
All creation slept and smiled.
Sleep, sleep, happy sleep,
While o’er thee thy mother weep.
Sweet babe, in thy face
Holy image I can trace              ;
Sweet babe, once like thee
Thy Maker lay, and wept for me:
Wept for me, for thee, for all,
When He was an infant small.
Thou His image ever see,
Heavenly face that smiles on thee!
Smiles on thee, on me, on all,
Who became an infant small          ;
Infant smiles are His own smiles    ;
Heaven and earth to peace beguiles.

The Virgin stills the crying
Of Jesus, sleepless lying                  ;
And singing for his pleasure,
Thus calls upon her treasure,
"My darling, do not weep, my Jesu, sleep!"
O lamb, my love inviting,
O star, my soul delighting,
O flower of mine own bearing,
O jewel past comparing!
"My darling, do not weep, my Jesu, sleep!"
My Child, of might indwelling,
My sweet, all sweets excelling,
Of bliss the fountain flowing,
The dayspring ever glowing
"My darling, do not weep, my Jesu, sleep!"
My joy, my exultation,
My spirit's consolation                    ;
My son, my spouse, my brother,
O listen to thy mother!
"My darling, do not weep, my Jesu, sleep!"
Say, would'st thou heavenly sweetness,
Or love of answering meetness?
Or is fit music wanting?
Ho! angels, raise your chanting!
"My darling, do not weep, my Jesu, sleep!"

Comest Thou peaceably, O Lord?
‘Yea, I am Peace!	
Be not so fearful to afford	
Thy Maker room! for I am the Reward	
To which all generations of increase
Looking did never cease.
‘Down from amid dark wings of storm	
I set My Feet	
To earth. Will not My earth grow warm	
To feel her Maker take the form
He made, when now, Creation’s purpose meet,	
Man’s body is to be God’s Mercy-seat?’
Lord, I am foul: there is no whole	
Fair part in me	
Where Thou canst deign to be!
This form is not Thy making, since it stole	
Fruit from the bitter Tree.	
‘Yet still thou hast the griefs to give in toll	
That I may test the sickness of man’s soul.’
O Lord, my work is without worth!
I am afraid,	
Lest I should man the blissful Birth.	
Quoth Christ, ‘Ere seas had shores, or earth	
Foundations laid,	
My Cross was made!’
‘Naught canst thou do that was not willed	
By Love to be,	
To bring the Work to pass through Me.	
No knee	
Stiffens, or bends before My Sov’reignty,
But from the world’s beginning hath fulfilled	
Its choice betwixt the valleyed and the hilled.	
For both, at one decree,	
My Blood was spilled.’
Yet canst Thou use these sin-stained hands?
‘These hands,’ quoth Christ,	
‘Of them I make My need:	
Since they sufficed to forge the bands	
Wherein I hunger, they shall sow the seed!	
And with bread daily they shall feed
My Flesh till, bought and bound, It stands	
A Sacrifice to bleed.’
Lord, let this house be swept and garnished first!	
For fear lest sin	
Do there look in,
Let me shut fast the windows: lest Thou thirst,	
Make some pure inner well of waters burst:	
For no sweet water can man’s delving win—	
Earth is so curst.	
Also bar up the door: Thou wilt do well
To dwell, whilst with us, anchorite in Thy cell.	
Christ said ‘Let be: leave wide	
All ports to grief!	
Here when I knock I will not be denied	
The common lot of all that here abide               ;
Were I so blinded, I were blind in chief:	
How should I see to bring the blind relief?
Wilt Thou so make Thy dwelling? Then I fear	
Man, after this, shall dread to enter here:	
For all the inner courts will be so bright,
He shall be dazzled with excess of light,	
And turn, and flee!	
‘But from his birth I will array him right,	
And lay the temple open for his sight,	
And say to help him, as I bid him see:
“This is for thee!” ’

Now Christmas day approaches near,
Trim up the house with holly,
And set abroach the strongest beer,
For neighbours to be jolly.
Let fanatics old customs blame,
Yet Christmas is a High day,
Though they will fast upon the same,
And feast upon Good Friday.
Good works are popishly inclined,
Say they that none will do,
Yet they for pride can money find,
And keep a coach also.
Thus, that which should relieve the poor,
And feast them at this tide,
Is spent upon a coach and four,
To maintain foolish pride.
Yet some there are, although but few,
In whom more goodness lurks,
Who, to the poor will pity show,
And show their faith by works.
I wish, for one, that these were twain,
And knaves away all swept,
That honest Christians, once again,
With feasting may be kept.

Bright Babe! whose awful beauties make
The morn incur a sweet mistake                 ;
For whom the officious heavens devise
To disinherit the sun's rise                   ;
Delicately to displace
The day, and plant it fairer in thy face       ;
O thou born King of loves!
Of lights!
Of joys!
Chorus. Look up, sweet Babe, look up and see!
For love of thee,
Thus far from home
The East is come
To seek herself in thy sweet eyes.
We who strangely went astray,
Lost in a bright
Meridian night                                 ;
A darkness made of too much day                ;
Beckoned from far
By thy fair star,
Lo, at last have found our way.
To thee, thou Day of Night! thou East of West!
Lo, we at last have found the way
To thee, the world's great universal East,
The general and indifferent day.
All-circling point! all-centring sphere!
The world's one round eternal year:
Whose full and all-unwrinkled face
Nor sinks nor swells with time or place        ;
But every where and every while
Is one consistent solid smile.
Not vexed and tost,
'Twixt spring and frost                        ;
Nor by alternate shreds of light,
Sordidly shifting hands with shades and night.
O little All, in Thy embrace,
The world lies warm and likes his place        ;
Nor does his full globe fail to be
Kissed on both his cheeks by Thee              ;
Time is too narrow for Thy year,
Nor makes the whole world Thy half-sphere.

Come, we shepherds whose blest sight
Hath met Love's noon in Nature's night          ;
Come lift up our loftier song,
And wake the sun that lies too long.
To all our world of well-stol'n joy
He slept, and dreamt of no such thing,
While we found out Heaven's fairer eye,
And kissed the cradle of our King               ;
Tell him he rises now too late
To show us aught worth looking at.
Tell him we now can show him more
Than he e'er show'd to mortal sight,
Than he himself e'er saw before,
Which to be seen needs not his light :
Tell him, Tityrus, where th' hast been,
Tell him, Thyrsis, what th' hast seen.
Tit. Gloomy night embraced the place
Where the noble infant lay :
The babe look'd up, and show'd His face         ;
In spite of darkness it was day.
It was Thy day, sweet, and did rise,
Not from the East, but from Thy eyes.
It was Thy day, sweet, &c.
Thrys. Winter chid aloud, and sent
The angry North to wage his wars :
The North forgot his fierce intent,
And left perfumes instead of scars.
By those sweet eyes' persuasive powers,
Where he meant frosts he scatter'd flowers.
By those sweet eyes', &c.
We saw Thee in Thy balmy nest,
Young dawn of our eternal day                   ;
We saw Thine eyes break from the East,
And chase the trembling shades away :
We saw Thee, and we blest the sight,
We saw Thee by Thine own sweet light.
Tit. Poor world (said I) what wilt thou do
To entertain this starry stranger ?
Is this the best thou canst bestow—
A cold and not too cleanly manger ?
Contend, the powers of heaven and earth,
To fit a bed for this huge birth.
Contend, the powers, &c.
Thyrs. Proud world (said I) cease your contest,
And let the mighty babe alone,
The phoenix builds the phoenix' nest,
Love's architecture is His own.
The babe, whose birth embraves this morn,
Made His own bed ere He was born.
The babe whose birth, &c.
Tit. I saw the curl'd drops, soft and slow,
Come hovering o'er the place's head             ;
Offe'ring their whitest sheets of snow,
To furnish the fair infant's bed.
Forbear, said I, be not too bold,
Your fleece is white, but 'tis too cold.
Forbear (said I), &c.
Thyrs. I saw th' obsequious seraphim
Their rosy fleece of fire bestow,
For well they now can spare their wings,
Since Heaven itself lies here below.
Well done, said I                               ; but are you sure
Your down, so warm, will pass for pure ?
Well done, said I, &c.
Tit. No, no, your King's not yet to seek
Where to repose His royal head                  ;
See, see how soon His new-bloom'd cheek
'Twixt mother's breasts is gone to bed.
Sweet choice, said we, no way but so,
Not to lie cold, yet sleep in snow !
Sweet choice, said we, &c.
We saw Thee in Thy balmy nest,
Young dawn of our eternal day                   ;
We saw Thine eyes break from the East,
And chase the trembling shades away :
We saw Thee, and we blest the sight,
We saw Thee by Thine own sweet light.
Sweet choice, said we, &c.
Welcome all wonders in one sight !
Eternity shut in a span !
Summer in winter ! day in night !
Heaven in earth ! and God in man !
Great little one, whose all-embracing birth
Lifts earth to Heaven, stoops Heaven to earth !
Welcome, tho' nor to gold, nor silk,
To more than Cæsar's birthright is :
Twin sister seas of virgin's milk,
With many a rarely-temper'd kiss,
That breathes at once both maid and mother,
Warms in the one, cools in the other.
She sings Thy tears asleep, and dips
Her kisses in Thy weeping eye :
She spreads the red leaves of Thy lips,
That in their buds yet blushing lie.
She 'gainst those mother diamonds tries
The points of her young eagle's eyes.
Welcome—though not to those gay flies,
Gilded i' the beams of earthly kings,
Slippery souls in smiling eyes—
But to poor shepherds, homespun things,
Whose wealth's their flocks, whose wit's to be
Well read in their simplicity.
Yet, when April's husband show'rs
Shall bless the fruitful Maia's bed,
We'll bring the first-born of her flowers,
To kiss Thy feet, and crown Thy head.
To Thee, dread Lamb ! whose love must keep
The shepherds while they feed their sheep.
To Thee, meek Majesty, soft King
Of simple graces and sweet loves !
Each of us his lamb will bring,
Each his pair of silver doves !
At last, in fire of Thy fair eyes,
Ourselves become our own best sacrifice !

Hush! my dear, lie still and slumber,
Holy Angels guard thy bed                   ;
Heavenly blessings without number
Gently falling on thy head.
Sleep, my babe                              ; thy food and raiment,
House and home, thy friends provide         ;
All without thy care or payment,
All thy wants are well supplied.
How much better thou'rt attended
Than the Son of God could be,
When from heaven He descended,
And became a child like thee!
Soft and easy is thy cradle:
Coarse and hard thy Saviour lay,
When His birthplace was a stable,
And His softest bed was hay.
See the kinder shepherds round Him,
Telling wonders from the sky!
Where they sought Him, there they found Him
With His Virgin-Mother by.
See the lovely Babe a-dressing              ;
Lovely Infant, how He smiled!
When He wept, the Mother's blessing
Soothed and hush'd the holy Child.
Lo, He slumbers in His manger,
Where the horned oxen fed                   ;
--Peace, my darling, here's no danger       ;
Here's no ox a-near thy bed!
May'st thou live to know and fear Him,
Trust and love Him all thy days             ;
Then go dwell forever near Him,
See His face and sing His praise!
I could give thee thousand kisses,
Hoping what I most desire                   ;
Not a mother's fondest wishes
Can to greater joys aspire.

A Merry Christmas to you!
For we the serve the Lord with mirth,
And we carol forth glad tidings
Of our holy Saviour's birth.
So we keep the olden greeting
With its meaning deep and true,
And wish a Merrie Christmas
And a Happy New Year to you!
Oh, yes! a Merry Christmas
With blithest song and smile,
Bright with the thought of him who dwelt
On earth a little while,
That we might dwell forever
Where never falls a tear                 ;
So a Merry Christmas to you,
And a happy, happy year.

Father John Burges,
Necessity urges
My woeful cry
To Sir Robert Pie:
And that he will venture
To send my debenture.
Tell him his Ben
Knew the time when
He loved the Muses                             ;
Though now he refuses
To take apprehension
Of a year's pension,
And more is behind                             ;
Put him in mind
Christmas is near,
And neither good cheer,
Mirth, fooling, nor wit,
Nor any least fit
Of gambol or sport
Will come to the court
If there be no money,
No plover or cony
Will come to the table,
Or wine to enable
The muse, or the poet,
The parish will know it
Nor any quick warming-pan help him to bed      ;
If the 'Chequer be empty, so will be his head.

Sweet baby, sleep                           ; what ails my dear?
What ails my darling thus to cry?
Be still, my child, and lend thine ear
To hear me sing thy lullaby.
My pretty lamb, forbear to weep             ;
Be still, my dear                           ; sweet baby, sleep.
Thou blessed soul, what canst thou fear?
What things to thee can mischief do?
Thy God is now thy Father dear              ;
His holy Spouse thy Mother, too.
Sweet baby, then, forbear to weep           ;
Be still, my babe                           ; sweet baby, sleep.
Whilst thus thy lullaby I sing,
For thee great blessings ripening be        ;
Thine eldest brother is a king,
And hath a kingdom bought for thee.
Sweet baby, then, forbear to weep           ;
Be still, my babe                           ; sweet baby, sleep.
Sweet baby, sleep, and nothing fear,
For whosoever thee offends,
By thy protector threatened are,
And God and angels are thy friends.
Sweet baby, then, forbear to weep           ;
Be still, my babe                           ; sweet baby, sleep.
When God with us was dwelling here,
In little babes he took delight:
Such innocents as thou, my dear,
Are ever precious in his sight.
Sweet baby, then, forbear to weep           ;
Be still, my babe                           ; sweet baby, sleep.
A little infant once was he,
And Strength-in-Weakness then was laid
Upon his Virgin-Mother's knee,
That power to thee might be conveyed.
Sweet baby, then, forbear to weep           ;
Be still, my babe                           ; sweet baby, sleep.
In this thy frailty and thy need
He friends and helpers doth prepare,
Which thee shall cherish, clothe, and feed,
For of thy weal they tender are.
Sweet baby, then, forbear to weep           ;
Be still, my babe                           ; sweet baby, sleep.
The King of kings, when he was born,
Had not so much for outward ease            ;
By him such dressings were not worn,
Nor such-like swaddling-clothes as these.
Sweet baby, then, forbear to weep           ;
Be still, my babe                           ; sweet baby, sleep.
Within a manger lodged thy Lord,
Where oxen lay and asses fed                ;
Warm rooms we do to thee afford,
An easy cradle or a bed.
Sweet baby, then, forbear to weep           ;
Be still, my babe                           ; sweet baby, sleep.
The wants that he did then sustain
Have purchased wealth, my babe, for thee,
And by his torments and his pain
Thy rest and ease secured be.
My baby, then, forbear to weep              ;
Be still, my babe                           ; sweet baby, sleep.
Thou hast (yet more), to perfect this,
A promise and an earnest got
Of gaining everlasting bliss,
Though thou, my babe, perceiv'st it not.
Sweet baby, then, forbear to weep           ;
Be still, my babe                           ; sweet baby, sleep.

T'was the night before Christmas
He lived all alone,
in a one bedroom house
made of plaster and stone.
I had come down the chimney
with presents to give
To see just who,
in this dwelling did live.
I looked all around
A strange sight to see
No tinsel, no presents,
Not even a tree.
On the wall hung pictures
of far distant lands.
Medals 'n badges, awards of every kind    ;
A sobering thought came alive in my mind.
This house was different...
it was dark, it was dreary.
I had found the home of a soldier,
I could see that most clearly.
The soldier lay sleeping,
Silent, Alone                             ;
Curled up on the floor
In this one bedroom home.
His face was so gentle,
The room in such disorder                 ;
Not at all how I pictured
a United States' soldier.
Was this the hero
of whom I'd just read                     ;
Curled up on a poncho,
the floor for a bed?
Then I realized the other families
I saw this night,
Owed their lives to soldiers
Who were willing to fight.
In the morning, round the world,
Children would play                       ;
Grown-ups would celebrate
A bright Christmas Day.
But they all enjoy freedom
Each month of the year,
Because of soldiers
Like the one lying here.
I couldn't help but wonder
How many lay alone,
On a cold Christmas Eve
In lands far from home.
The very thought
Brought a tear to my eyes                 ;
I dropped to my knees,
I started to cry.
The soldier awakened
I heard his rough voice,
"Santa don't cry,
This life is MY choice.
I fight for freedom,
I don't ask for more                      ;
My life is my God,
My country, My corps."
The soldier rolled over,
and drifted to sleep.
But, I couldn't control it,
I continued to weep.
I kept watch for hours,
So silent and still                       ;
As both of us shivered
From the cold night's chill.
I didn't want to leave him
On that cold, dark night                  ;
This guardian of honor,
So willing to fight.
Then, the soldier rolled over,
In a voice soft and pure,
He whispered, "Carry on Santa,
It's Christmas Day, all is secure."
One look at my watch,
I knew he was right.
Merry Christmas my friend,
May God bless you this night.

Cold and wintry is the sky,
Bitter winds go whistling by,
Orchard boughs are bare and dry,
Yet here stands a faithful tree.
Household fairies kind and dear,
With loving magic none need fear,
Bade it rise and blossom here,
Little friends, for you and me.
Come and gather as they fall,
Shining gifts for great and small        ;
Santa Claus remembers all
When he comes with goodies piled.
Corn and candy, apples red,
Sugar horses, gingerbread,
Babies who are never fed,
Are handing here for every child.
Shake the boughs and down they come,
Better fruit than peach or plum,
'T is our little harvest home            ;
For though frosts the flowers kill,
Though birds depart and squirrels sleep,
Though snows may gather cold and deep,
Little folks their sunshine keep,
And mother-love makes summer still.
Gathered in a smiling ring,
Lightly dance and gayly sing,
Still at heart remembering
The sweet story all should know,
Of the little Child whose birth
Has made this day throughout the earth
A festival for childish mirth,
Since the first Christmas long ago.

All my heart this night rejoices,
As I hear,
Far and near,
Sweetest angel voices                       ;
"Christ is born," their choirs are singing,
Till the air
Everywhere
Now with joy is ringing.
For it dawns, -- the promised morrow
Of His birth
Who the earth
Rescues from her sorrow.
god to wear our form descendeth,
Of His grace
To our race
Here His Son He lendeth:
Yea, so truly for us careth,
That His Son
All we've done
As our offering beareth                     ;
As our Lamb who, dying for us,
Bears our load,
And to God
Doth in peace restore us.
Hark! a voice from yonder manger,
Soft and sweet,
Doth entreat,
"Flea from woe and danger                   ;
Brethren come, from all doth grieve you
You are freed,
All you need
I will surely give you."
Come then, let us hasten yonder             ;
Her let all,
Great and small,
Kneel in awe and wonder.
Love Him who with love is yearning          ;
Hail the Star
That from far
Bright with hope is burning!
Ye who pine in weary sadness,
Weep no more,
For the door
Now is found of gladness.
Cling to Him for He will guide you
Where no cross
Pain or loss,
Can again betide you.
Hither come, ye heavy-hearted               ;
Who for sin
Deep within,
Long and sore have smarted                  ;
For the poison'd wounds you're feeling
Help is near,
One is here
Mighty for their healing!
Hither come, ye poor and wretched           ;
Know His will
Is to fill
Every hand outstretched                     ;
Here are riches without measure,
Here forget
All regret,
Fill your hearts with treasure.
Blessed Saviour, let me find Thee!
Keep Thou me
Close to Thee,
Cast me not behind Thee!
Life of life, my heart Thou stillest,
Calm I rest
on Thy breast,
All this void Thou fillest.
Thee, dear Lord, with heed I'll cherish,
Live to Thee,
And with Thee
Dying, shall not perish                     ;
But shall dwell with Thee for ever,
Far on high
In the joy
That can alter never.

A spotless Rose is blowing
Sprung from a tender root,
Of ancient seers’ foreshowing,
Of Jesse promised fruit                      ;
Its fairest bud unfolds to light
Amid the cold, cold winter
And in the dark midnight.
The Rose which I am singing,
Whereof Isaiah said,
Is from its sweet root springing
In Mary, purest Maid                         ;
For through our God’s great love and might
The blessed babe she bare us
In a cold, cold winter’s night.

Come follow, follow me,
Those that good fellows be,
Into the buttery
Our manhood for to try                      ;
The master keeps a bounteous house,
And gives leave freely to carouse.
Then wherefore should we fear,
Seeing here is store of cheer?
It shows but cowardice
At this time to be nice.
Then boldly draw your blades and fight,
For we shall have a merry night.
When we have done this fray,
Then we will go to play
At cards or else at dice,
And be rich in a trice                      ;
Then let the knaves go round apace,
I hope each time to have an ace.
Come, maids, let's want no beer
After our Christmas cheer,
And I will duly crave
Good husbands you may have,
And that you may good houses keep,
When we may drink carouses deep.
And when that's spent the day
We'll Christmas gambols play,
At hot cockles beside
And then go to all-hide,
With many other pretty toys,
Men, women, youths, maids, girls, and boys.
Come, let's dance round the hall,
And let's for liquor call                   ;
Put apples in the fire,
Sweet maids, I you desire                   ;
And let a bowl be spiced well
Of happy stuff that doth excel.
Twelve days we now have spent
In mirth and merriment,
And daintily did fare,
For which we took no care:
But now I sadly call to mind
What days of sorrow are behind.
We must leave off to play,
To-morrow's working-day                     ;
According to each calling
Each man must now be falling,
And ply his business all the year
Next Christmas for to make good cheer.
Now of my master kind
Good welcome I did find,
And of my loving mistress
This merry time of Christmas                ;
For which to them great thanks I give,
God grant they long together live.

Oh, the beauty of the Christ Child,
The gentleness, the grace,
The smiling, loving tenderness,
The infantile embrace!
All babyhood he holdeth,
All motherhood enfoldeth—
Yet who hath seen his face?
Oh, the nearness of the Christ Child,
When, for a sacred space,
He nestles in our very homes—
Light of the human race!
We know him and we love him,
No man to us need prove him—
Yet who hath seen his face?

Thrice holy ring, afar and wide,
The merry bells this Christmas-tide          ;
Afar and wide, through hushed snow,
From ivied minster-portico,
Sweet anthems swell to tell the tale
Of that young babe the shepherds hail
Sitting amid their nibbling flocks
What time the Hallelujah shocks
The drowsy earth, and Cherubim
Break through the heaven with harp and hymn.
Belated birds sing tingling notes
To warm apace their chilly throats,
Or they, mayhap, have caught the story
And pipe their part from branches hoary      ;
While up aloft, his tempered beams
The sun has poured in gentle streams,
Sending o'er snowy hill and dell
A pleasance to greet the Christmas bell!
Now every yeoman starts abroad
For holly green and the ivy-tod              ;
Good folk to kirk are soon atrip
Mellow with cheer and good-fellowship,
And cosey chimneys, here and there
Puff forth the sweets o' Christmas fare.
Ho! rosy wenches and merry men
From over the hill and field and fen,
Great store is here, the drifts between
Of myrtle red-berried, and mistletoe green!
Ho, Phyllis and Kate and bonny Nell
Come hither, and buffet the goodmen well,
An they gather not for hall and hearth,
Fair bays to grace the evening mirth.
Aye, laugh ye well! and echoed wide
Your voices sing through the Christmas-tide,
And wintry winds emblend their tones
At the minster-eaves with the organ groans:
The carols meet with laughter sweet
In a gay embrace mid the drifting sleet.
Anon the weary sun's at rest,
And clouds that hovered all day by,
Like silver arras down the sky
Enfold him--while the winds are whist--
But not the Christmas jollity,
For, little space, and wassail high
Flows at the board                           ; and hautboys sound
The tripping dance and merry round.
Here youths and maidens stand in row
Kissing beneath the mistletoe                ;
And many a tale of midnight rout
O' Christmas-tide the woods about,
Of faery meetings beneath the moon
In wintry blast or summer swoon,
Goes round the hearth, while all aglow
The yule-log crackles the crane below.
Drink hael! good folk, by the chimney side,
O sweet's the holy Christmas-tide!
Drink hael! Drink hael! and pledge again:
"Here's peace on earth, good-will to men!"

happy crib, that wert, alone,
To my God, bed, cradle, throne!
Whilst thy glorious vileness I
View with divine fancy's eye,
Sordid filth seems all the cost,
State, and splendour, crowns do boast.
See heaven's sacred majesty
Humbled beneath poverty                 ;
Swaddled up in homely rags,
On a bed of straw and flags!
He whose hands the heavens displayed,
And the world's foundations laid,
From the world's almost exiled,
Of all ornaments despoiled.
Perfumes bathe him not, new-born        ;
Persian mantles not adorn               ;
Nor do the rich roofs look bright
With the jasper's orient light.
Where, O royal infant, be
The ensigns of thy majesty              ;
Thy Sire's equalizing state             ;
And thy sceptre that rules fate?
Where's thy angel-guarded throne,
Whence thy laws thou didst make known--
Laws which heaven, earth, hell obeyed?
These, ah! these aside he laid          ;
Would the emblem be--of pride
By humility outvied?

Run, shepherds, run where Bethlehem blest appears.
We bring the best of news                               ; be not dismayed:
A Saviour there is born more old than years,
Amidst heaven's rolling height this earth who stayed.
In a poor cottage inned, a virgin maid,
A weakling did him bear, who all upbears                ;
There is he poorly swaddled, in manger laid,
To whom too narrow swaddlings are our spheres:
Run, shepherds, run, and solemnize his birth.
This is that night — no, day, grown great with bliss,
In which the power of Satan broken is:
In heaven be glory, peace unto the earth!
Thus singing, through the air the angels swarm,
And cope of stars re-echoèd the same.
Or say, if this new Birth of ours
Sleeps, laid within some ark of flowers,
Spangled with dew-light                                 ; thou canst clear
All doubts, and manifest the where.
Declare to us, bright star, if we shall seek
Him in the morning's blushing cheek,
Or search the beds of spices through,
To find him out?
Star. — No, this ye need not do                       ;
But only come and see Him rest,
A princely babe, in's mother's breast.

Another Christmas eve is here,
Eve that heralds the brightest day of earth                 ;
'Tis a day of joy, and of happy good cheer,
And our hearts shall fill with purest of mirth              ;
We remember with joy and gladness to-night,
How yet for us all the star shineth bright.
Centuries have flown since that eventful eve,
When the angels sang o'er Bethlehem's plain                 ;
The world in its sorrow, love would not leave,
Nor the race of man to since dark domain                    ;
The refrain of that song has not yet died away.
Buyt now leads the world up Heaven's bright way.
May the star still shine, and the song be sung,
The star and the song shall lighten our way                 ;
In this blessed light, shall our battles be won,
And from the right path, our feet shall not stray           ;
When another Christmas shall come to us no more,
We'll join in Heaven's Christmas song upon the other shore.

When rosemary, and bays, the poets' crown,
Are bawled, in frequent cries, through all the town ;
Then judge the festival of Christmas near,
Christmas, the joyous period of the year.
Now with bright holly all your temples strew,
With laurel green, and sacred mistletoe.1
Now, heaven-born Charity! thy blessings shed        ;
Bid meagre Want uproar her sickly head              ;
Bid shivering limbs be warm                         ; let Plenty's bowl
In humble roofs make glad the needy soul!
See, see! the heaven-born maid her blessings shed   ;
Lo! meagre Want uprears her sickly head             ;
Clothed are the naked, and the needy glad,
While selfish Avarice alone is sad.

So many hills arising, green and gray,
On Earth's large round, and that one hill to say:
"I was his bearing-place!" On Earth's wide breast
So many maids! and she--of all most blest--
Heavily mounting Bethlehem, to be
His Mother!--Holy Maid of Galilee!
Hill, with the olives, and the little town!
If rivers from their crystal founts flow down,
If 'twas the dawn which did day's gold unbar,
Ye were beginnings of the best we are,
The most we see, the highest that we know,
The lifting heavenward of man's life below.
Therefore, though better lips ye shall not lack,
Suffer if one of modern mood steals back--
Weary and wayworn from the desert-road
Of barren thought                                        ; from Hope's Dead Sea, which glowed
With Love's fair mirage; from the poet's haunt,
The scholar's lamp, the statesman's scheme, the vaunt,
The failure, of all fond philosophies,--
Back unto Thee, back to thy olive-trees,
Thy people, and thy story, and thy Son,
Mary of Nazareth! So long agone
Bearing us Him who made our christendom,
And came to save the earth, from heav'n, His home.
So many hill-sides, crowned with rugged rocks!
So many simple shepherds keeping flocks
In many moonlit fields! but, only they--
So lone, so long ago, so far away--
On that one winter's night, at Bethlehem,
To have white angels singing lauds for them!
They only--hinds wrapped in the he-goat's skin--
To hear heaven's music, bidding peace begin!
Only for those, of countless watching eyes,
The "Glory of the Lord" glad to arise                    ;
The skies to blaze with gold and silver light
Of seraphs by strong joy flashed into sight              ;
The wind, for them, with that strange song to swell,--
By too much happiness incredible--
That tender anthem of good times to be,
Then at their dawn--not daylight yet, ah me!
"Peace upon earth! Good-will!" sung to the strings
Of lutes celestial. Nay, if these things
Too blessed to believe have seemed, or seem,
Not ours the fault, dear angels! Prove the dream
Waking and true! sing once again, and make
Moonlight and starlight sweet for earth's sad sake!
Or, if heaven bids ye lock in silence still
Conquest of peace, and coming of good-will,
Till times to be, then--oh, you placid sheep!
Ah, thrice-blest shepherds! suffer if we creep
Back through the tangled thicket of the years
To graze in your fair flock, to strain our ears
With listening herdsmen, if, perchance, one note
Of such high singing in the fine air float               ;
If any rock thrills yet with that great strain
We did not hear, and shall not hear, again               ;
If any olive-leaf at Bethlehem
Lisps still one syllable vouchsafed to them              ;
If some stream, conscious still--some breeze--be stirred
With echo of th' immortal words ye heard.
What was it that ye heard? the wind of night
Playing in cheating tones, with touches light,
Amid the palm-plumes? or, one stop outblown
Of planetary music, so far flown
Earthwards, that to those innocent ears 'twas brought
Which bent the mighty measure to their thought?
Or, haply, from breast-shaped Beth-Haccarem,
The hill of Herod, some waft sent to them
Of storming drums and trumps, at festival
Held in the Idumaean's purple hall?
Or, it may be, some Aramaic song
Of country lovers, after partings long
Meeting anew, with much "good will" indeed,
Blown by some swain upon his Jordan reed?
Nay, nay! your abbas back ye did not fling,
From each astonished ear, for swains to sing
Their village-verses clear                               ; for sounds well-known
Of wandering breeze, or whispering trees, or tone
Of Herod's trumpets. And ye did not gaze
Heart-startled on the stars (albeit the rays
Of that lone orb shot, sparkling, from the east
Unseen before), for these, largest and least,
Were fold-lamps, lighted nightly: and ye knew
Far differing glory in the night's dark blue
Suddenly lit with rose, and pierced with spike
Of golden spear-beam. Oh, a dream, belike!
Some far-fetched vision, new to peasant's sleep,
Of paradise stripped bare!--But, why thus keep
Secrets for them? This bar, which doth enclose
Better and nobler souls, why burst for those
Who supped on the parched pulse, and lapped the stream,
And each, at the same hour, dreams the same dream!
Or, easier still, they lied! Yet, wherefore, then
"Rise, and go up to Bethlehem," and unpen
To wolf and jackal all their hapless fold
So they might "see these things which had been told
In heaven's own voice"? And heaven, whate'er betide,
Spreads surely somewhere, on death's farther side!
And, truly, if joy's music once hath rung
Prom lips of bands invisible, if any--
(Be they the dead, or of the deathless many)--
Love and serve man, angelical befrienders,
Glad of his weal, and from his woe defenders,--
If such, in heaven, have pity on our tears,
Forever falling with the unmending years,
High cause had they, at Bethlehem, that night,
To lift the curtain of hope's hidden light,
To break decree of silence with love's cry,
Foreseeing how this Babe, born lowlily,
Should--past dispute, since now achieved is this--
Bring earth great gifts of blessing and of bliss         ;
Date, from that crib, the dynasty of love                ;
Strip his misused thunderbolts from Jove                 ;
Bend to their knee Rome's Caesars, break the chain
From the slave's neck                                    ; set sick hearts free again
Bitterly bound by priests, and scribes, and scrolls      ;
And heal, with balm of pardon, sinking souls:
Should mercy to her vacant throne restore,
Teach right to kings, and patience to the poor           ;
Should, from that bearing-cave, outside the khan,
Amid the kneeling cattle, rise, and be
Light of all lands, and splendor of each sea,
The sun-burst of a new morn come to earth,
Not yet, alas! broad day, but day's white birth
Which promiseth                                          ; and blesseth, promising.
These from that night! What cause of wondering
If that one silence of all silences
Brake into music? if, for hopes like these
Angels, who love us, sang that song, and show
Of time's far purpose made the "great light" glow?
Wherefore, let whosoever will drink dry
His cup of faith                                         ; and think that, verily,
Not in a vision, no way otherwise
Than those poor shepherds told, there did arise
This portent. Being amidst their sheep and goats,
Lapped careless in their pasture-keeping coats,
Blind as their drowsy beasts to what drew nigh,
(Such the lulled ear, and such th' unbusied eye
Which ofttimes hears and sees hid things!) there spread
The "Glory of the Lord" around each head:
Broke, be it deemed, o'er hill and over hollow,
On the inner seeing, the sense concealed, unknown,
Of those plain hinds--glad, humble, and alone--
Flooding their minds, filling their hearts               ; around,
Above, below, disclosing grove and ground,
The rocks, the hill, the town, the solitude,
The wondering flocks,--agaze with grass half-chewed,--
The palm-crowns, and the path to Bethlehem,
As sight angelic spies. And, came to them
The "Angel of the Lord," visible, sure,
Known for the angel by his presence pure
Whereon was written love, and peace, and grace,
With beauty passing mortal mien and face.
So when the Angels were no more to see,
Re-entering those gates of space,--whose key
Love keeps on that side, and on this side death--
Each shepherd to the other whispering saith,
Lest he should miss some lingering symphonies
Of that departing music, "Let us rise
And go even now to Bethlehem, and spy
This which is come to pass, shewed graciously
By the Lord's angels." Therewith hasted they
By olive-yards, and old walls mossed and gray
Where, in close chinks, the lizard and the snake,
Thinking the sunlight come, stirred, half-awake:
Across the terraced levels of the vines,
Under the pillared palms, along the lines
Of lance-leaved oleanders, scented sweet,
Through the pomegranate-gardens sped their feet          ;
Over the causeway, up the slope, they spring,
Breast the steep path, with steps not slackening         ;
Past David's well, past the town-wall they ran,
Unto the House of Chimham, to the khan,
Where mark them peering in, the posts between,
Questioning--all out of breath--if birth hath been
This night, in any guest-room, high or low?
The drowsy porter at the gate saith, "No!"--
Shooting the bars                                        ; while the packed camels shake
Their bells to listen, and the sleepers wake,
And to their feet the ponderous steers slow rise,
Lifting from trampled fodder large mild eyes             ;--
"Nay! Brothers! no such thing! yet there is gone
Yonder, one nigh her time, a gentle one!
With him that seemed her spouse--of Galilee              ;
They toiled at sundown to our doors--but, see!
No nook was here! Seek at the cave instead               ;
We shook some barley-straw to make their bed."
Then to the cave they wended, and there spied
That which was more, if truth be testified,
Than all the pomp seen thro' proud Herod's porch
Ablaze with brass, and silk, and scented torch,
High on Beth-Haccarem                                    ; more to behold,
If men had known, than all the glory told
Of splendid Caesar in his marbled home
On the white Isle                                        ; or audience-hall at Rome
With trembling princes thronged. A clay lamp swings
By twisted camel-cords, from blackened rings,
Shewing with flickering gleams, a Child new-born
Wrapped in a cloth, laid where the beasts at morn
Will champ their bean-straw: in the lamp-ray dim
A fresh-made Mother by Him, fostering Him
With face and mien to worship, speaking naught           ;
Close at hand Joseph, and the ass, hath brought
That precious twofold burden to the gate                 ;
With goats, sheep, oxen, driven to shelter late:
No mightier sight! Yet all sufficeth it--
If we will deem things be beyond our wit--
To prove heaven's music true, and show heaven's way,
How, not by famous kings, nor with array
Of brazen letters on the boastful stone,
But "by the mouth of babes," quiet, alone,
Little beginnings planning for large ends,
With other purpose than fond man attends,
Wisdom and love, in secret fellowship
Guide our world's wandering with a finger-tip            ;
And how, that night, as these did darkly see,
They sealed the first scrolls of earth's history,
And opened what shall run till death be dead.
Which babe they reverenced, bending low the head,
First of all worshippers                                 ; and told the things
Done in the plain, and played on angel's strings.
Then those around wondered and worshipped, too,
And Mary heard--but wondered not--anew
Hiding this in her heart, the heart which beat
With blood of Jesus Christ, holy and sweet.
Also, not marvelling, albeit they heard,
Stood certain by--those three swart ones--appeared
From climes unknown                                      ; yet, surely, on high quest
Of what that star proclaimed, bright on the breast
First of the Ram, afterwards glittering thence
Into the watery Trigon, where, intense,
It lit the Crab, and burned the Fishes pale.
Three Signiors, owning many a costly bale                ;
Three travelled masters, by their bearing lords
Of lands and slaves. The Indian silk affords,
With many a folded braid of white and gold,
Shade to their brows                                     ; rich goat-hair shawls did fold
Their gowns of flow'r'd white muslin, midway tied        ;
And ruby, turkis, emerald--stones of pride--
Blazed on their thumb-rings                              ; and a pearl gleamed white
In every ear                                             ; and silver belts, clasped tight,
Held ink-box, reeds, and knives, in scabbards gemmed     ;
Curled shoes of goat-skin dyed, with seed-pearls hemmed,
Shod their brown feet                                    ; hair shorn; lids low, to think--
Eyes deep and wistful, as of those who drink
Waters of hidden wisdom, night and day,
And live twain lives, conforming as they may,
In diligence, and due observances
To ways of men                                           ; yet, not at one with these;
But ever straining past the things that seem
To that which is--the truth behind the dream.
Three princely wanderers of the Asian blood
Perchance, by Indus dwellers                             ; or some flood,
That feeds her from Himala's icy dome                    ;
Or, haply, to those Syrian palm-trees come
From Gunga's banks, or mounts of Malabar
Which lift the Deccan to its sun, and far--
Rampart-like--fringe the blue Arabian Sea.
True followers of the Buddh they seemed to be,
The better arm and shoulder showing bare
With each                                                ; and on the neck of each, draped fair
A scarf of saffron, patched                              ; and, 'twixt the eyes,
In saffron stamped, the Name of mysteries
OM                                                       ; and the Swastika, with secrets rife
How man may 'scape the dire deceits of life.
These three stood by, as who would entrance make         ;
And heard the shepherd's tale                            ; and, hearing, spake
Strange Indian words one to another                      ; then sent
Command. Their serving-men, obedient,
Cast loose from off the camels, kneeling nigh,
Nettings and mats, and made the fastenings fly
From belly-band, and crupper-rope, and tail              ;
And broke the knots, and let each dusty bale
Slide from the saddle-horns, and give to see
Long-hoarded treasure of great jewelry,
And fragrant secrets of the Indian grove,
And splendors of the Indian looms, inwove
With gold and silver flowers: "for, now," said they,
"Our eyes have seen this thing sought day by day         ;
By the all-conscious, silent sky well-known,
And, specially, of yon white star fore-shown
Which, bursting magically on the sight,
Beckoned us from our homes, shining aright,
The silver beacon to this holy hill:
Mark if it sparkles not, aware and still,
Over the place: The astral houses, see!
Spake truth: Our feet were guided faithfully.
'Tis the Star-Child, who was to rise, and wear
A crown than Suleiman's more royal and rare,
'King of the Jews!' Grant an approach to us
Who crave to worship Him."
Now, it fell thus
That these first to Jerusalem had passed,
And sojourned there, observing feast and fast
In the thronged city                                     ; oft of townsmen seen
In market and bazaar                                     ; and, by their mien
Noted for lordliest of all strangers there,
Much whispered of, in sooth, as who saw clear
Shadows of times to come, and secrets bright
Writ in the jewelled cipher of the night.
So that the voice of this to Herod went
Feastful and fearful                                     ; ever ill-content
Mid plots and perils                                     ; girt with singing boys,
And dancing girls of Tyre, and armored noise
Of Caesar's legionaries. Long and near,
In audience hall, each dusky wayfarer
Questioned he of their knowledge, and the star,
What message flashed it? Whether near or far
Would rise this portent of a Babe to reign
King of the Jews, and bring a crown again
To weeping Zion, and cast forth from them
The Roman scourge? And if at Bethlehem,
As, with one voice, priests, elders, scribes aver,
Then, let them thither wend, and spy the stir,
And find this Babe, and come anew to him,
Declaring where the wonder. "'Twas his whim"
Quotha "to be of fashion with the stars,
(Weary, like them, of gazing upon wars)
To shine upon this suckling, bending knee
Save unto Caesar uncrooked latterly."
Thence came it those three stood at entering
Before the door                                          ; and their rich gifts did bring,
Red gold from the Indian rocks, cunningly beat
To plate and chalice, with old fables sweet
Of Buddh's compassion, and dark Mara's powers
Round the brims glittering                               ; and a riot of flowers
Done on the gold, with gold script to proclaim
The Noble Truths, and Threefold mystic Name
OM, and the Swastika, and how man wins
Blessed Nirvana's rest, being quit of sins,
And, day and night, reciting, "Oh, the Gem!
Upon the Lotus! Oh, the Lotus-stem!"
Also, more precious than much gold, they poured
Rare spices forth, unknitting cord on cord               ;
And, one by one, unwinding cloths, as though
The merchantmen had sought to shut in so
The breath of those distillings: in such kind
As when Nile's black embalming slaves would bind
Sindon o'er sindon, cere-cloth, cinglets, bands
Roll after roll, on head, breast, feet, and hands,
Round some dead king, whose cold and withered palm
Had dropped the sceptre                                  ; drenched with musk and balm,
And natron, and what keeps from perishing                ;
So they might save--after long wandering--
The body for the spirit, and hold fast
Life's likeness, till the dead man lived at last.
Thus, from their coats involved of leaves and silk,
Slowly they freed the odorous thorn-tree's milk,
The gray myrrh, and the cassia, and the spice,
Filling the wind with frankincense past price,
With hearts of blossoms from a hundred glens
And essence of a thousand rose-gardens,
Till the night's gloom like a royal curtain hung
Jewelled with stars, and rich with fragrance flung
Athwart the arch                                         ; and, in the cavern there
The air around was as the breathing-air
Of a queen's chamber, when she comes to bed,
And all that glad earth owns gives goodlihead.
Witness them entering,--these three from afar--
Who knew the skies, and had the strange white star
To light their nightly lamp, thro' deserts wide
Of Bactria, and the Persic wastes, and tide
Of Tigris and Euphrates                                  ; past the snow
Of Ararat, and where the sand-winds blow
O'er Ituraea                                             ; and the crimson peaks
Of Moab, and the fierce, bright, barren reeks
From Asphaltities                                        ; to this hill--to thee
Bethlehem-Ephrata! Witness these three
Gaze, hand in hand, with faces grave and mild,
Where, 'mid the gear and goats, Mother and Child
Make state and splendor for their eyes. Then lay
Each stranger on the earth, in the Indian way,
Paying the "eight prostrations;" and was heard
Saying softly, in the Indian tongue, that word
Wherewith a Prince is honored. Humbly ran,
On this, the people of their caravan
And fetch the gold, and--laid on gold--the spice,
Frankincense, myrrh: and next, with reverence nice,
Foreheads in dust, they spread the precious things
At Mary's feet, and worship Him who clings
To Mary's bosom drinking soft life so
Who shall be life and light to all below.
"For, now we see," say they, departing: "plain
The star's word comes to pass! The Buddh again
Appeareth, or some Boddhisat of might
Arising for the west, who shall set right,
And serve and reconcile                                  ; and, maybe, teach
Knowledge to those who know. We, brothers, each,
Have heard yon shepherds babbling: if the sky
Speaketh with such, heaven's mercy is drawn nigh!
Well did we counsel, journeying to this place!
Yon hour-old Babe, milking that breast of grace,
The world will praise and worship, well-content."
Then, fearing Herod, to their homes they went
Musing along the road. But he alway
Angered and troubled, bade his soldiers slay
Whatever man-child sucked in Bethlehem.
Lord! had'st Thou been all God, as pleaseth them
Who poorly see Thy godlike self, and take
True glory from Thee for false glory's sake:
Co-equal power, as these--too bold--blaspheme,
Ruler of what Thou camest to redeem                      ;
Not Babe Divine, feeling with touch of silk
For fountains of a mortal Mother's milk
With sweet mouth buried in the warm feast thus,
And dear heart growing great to beat for us,
And soft feet waiting till the way was spread
Whereby what was true God in Thee should tread
Triumphant over woe and death to bliss,--
Thou, from Thy cradle would'st have stayed in this
Those butchers! With one angel's swift decree,
Out of the silver cohorts lackeying Thee,
Thou had'st thrust down the bitter prince who killed
Thine innocents! Would'st Thou not? Was't not willed?
Alas! "Peace and good-will" in agony
Found first fruits! Rama heard that woful cry
Of Rachel weeping for the children                       ; lone,
Uncomforted, because her babes are gone.
Herod the King! hast thou heard Rachel's wail
Where restitution is? Did aught avail
Somewhere? at last? past life? after long stress
Of heavy shame to bring forgetfulness?
If such grace be, no hopeless sin is wrought             ;
Thy bloody blade missed what its vile edge sought        ;
Mother, and Child, and Joseph--safe from thee--
Journey to Egypt, while the eastern Three
Wind homewards, lightened of their spice and gold        ;
And those great days, that were to be, unfold
In the fair fields beside the shining sea
Which rolls, 'mid palms and rocks, in Galilee.

When on my day of life the night is falling,
And, in the winds from unsunned spaces blown,
I hear far voices out of darkness calling
My feet to paths unknown,
Thou who hast made my home of life so pleasant,
Leave not its tenant when its walls decay             ;
O Love Divine, O Helper ever present,
Be Thou my strength and stay!
Be near me when all else is from me drifting          ;
Earth, sky, home's pictures, days of shade and shine,
And kindly faces to my own uplifting
The love which answers mine.
I have but Thee, my Father! let Thy spirit
Be with me then to comfort and uphold                 ;
No gate of pearl, no branch of palm I merit,
Nor street of shining gold.
Suffice it if -- my good and ill unreckoned,
And both forgiven through Thy abounding grace --
I find myself by hands familiar beckoned
Unto my fitting place.
Some humble door among Thy many mansions,
Some sheltering shade where sin and striving cease,
And flows forever through heaven's green expansions
The river of Thy peace.
There, from the music round about me stealing,
I fain would learn the new and holy song,
And find at last, beneath Thy trees of healing,
The life for which I long.

Mark well my heavy, doleful tale,
For Twelfth-day now is come,
And now I must no longer sing,
And say no words but mum                    ;
For I perforce must take my leave
Of all my dainty cheer,
Plum-porridge, roast-beef, and minced-pies,
My strong ale and my beer.
Kind-hearted Christmas, now adieu,
For I with thee must part,
And for to take my leave of thee
Doth grieve me at the heart                 ;
Thou wert an ancient housekeeper,
And mirth with meat didst keep,
But thou art going out of town,
Which makes me for to weep.
God knoweth whether I again
Thy merry face shall see,
Which to good fellows and the poor
That was so frank and free.
Thou lovedst pastime with thy heart,
And eke good company                        ;
Pray hold me up for fear I swoon,
For I am like to die.
Come, butler, fill a brimmer up
To cheer my fainting heart,
That to old Christmas I may drink
Before he doth depart                       ;
And let each one that's in this room
With me likewise condole,
And for to cheer their spirits sad
Let each one drink a bowl.
And when the same it hath gone round
Then fall unto your cheer,
For you do know that Christmas time
It comes but once a year.
But this good draught which I have drunk
Hath comforted my heart,
For I was very fearful that
My stomach would depart.
Thanks to my master and my dame
That doth such cheer afford                 ;
God bless them, that each Christmas they
May furnish thus their board.
My stomach having come to me,
I mean to have a bout,
Intending to eat most heartily              ;
Good friends, I do not flout.

Ho, for the ancient hostelry,
Whose generous doors swing wide and free!
Whose guests, when the first snow crystals fall,
Gather within its spacious hall
From north and from south, and from west to east,
Big folks down to the very least,
Thronging, far as the eye can see,
To lodge at The Sign of the Christmas Tree.
The guests are known by their curious wiles,
Mysterious nods, and becks, and smiles            ;
There are secrets flying about by scores,
Smothered laughs behind fast-closed doors         ;
There's a noise of hammers, and tink of bells,
And whispered "Hushes," and soft "Don't tells."
Oh, a wonderful place for mystery
In the ancient Inn of the Christmas Tree!
There guests sit apart, and stitch and sew
On woven linen as white as snow                   ;
Flowers bloom bright on silken fields,
And fresh surprises each moment yields.
And the room where they sit is like a dream,
Where scarlet berries of holly gleam              ;
And over the lintel, in gold, is wrought
Its beautiful name of "Loving Thought."
And Peggy, and Polly, and Pete, and Prue,
With a dear little girl that looks like you,
A red-haired lass, and a blue-eyed lad,
Grandmother dear, and Mother, and Dad,
And hundreds of others all over the land,
Are working away with heart and hand,
Snipping and clipping, where none may see,
At the Merry Sign of the Christmas Tree.
But oh, dear people who long have been
Guests 'neath the roof of this pleasant inn,
Bethink, there are those who do not belong
To the work and fun, to the cheer and song!
Empty-handed and wistful-eyed,
They are out in the cold this Christmas-tide.
Tie up your parcels with ribbon gay               ;
Sprig them with green in the good old way         ;
Then, from your riches, where need is seen
Fill up the lives that are bare and lean.
So shall a gracious blessing be
Called down on The Sign of the Christmas Tree.

Between the moonlight and the fire
In winter twilights long ago,
What ghosts we raised for your desire,
To make your merry blood run slow!
How old, how grave, how wise we grow!
No Christmas ghost can make us chill,
Save those that troop in mournful row,
The ghosts we all can raise at will!
The beasts can talk in barn and byre
On Christmas Eve, old legends know.
As year by year the years retire,
We men fall silent then I trow,
Such sights hath memory to show,
Such voices from the silence thrill,
Such shapes return with Christmas snow,—
The ghosts we all can raise at will.
Oh, children of the village choir,
Your carols on the midnight throw,
Oh, bright across the mist and mire,
Ye ruddy hearths of Christmas glow!
Beat back the dread, beat down the woe,
Let's cheerily descend the hill            ;
Be welcome all, to come or go,
The ghosts we all can raise at will.

Now Christmas comes, 'tis fit that we
Should feast and sing and merry be,
Keep open house, let fiddlers play        ;
A fig for cold, sing care away!
And may they who thereat repine,
On brown bread and on small beer dine.
Make fires with logs, let the cooks sweat
With boiling and with roasting meat       ;
Let ovens be heat for fresh supplies
Of puddings, pasties, and minced-pies.
And whilst that Christmas doth abide
Let butt'ry-door stand open wide.
Hang up those churls that will not feast
Or with good fellows be a guest,
And hang up those would take away
The observation of that day               ;
O may they never minced-pies eat,
Plum-pudding, roast-beef, nor such meat.
But blest be they, awake and sleep,
Who at that time a good house keep        ;
May never want come nigh their door,
Who at that time relieve the poor         ;
Be plenty always in their house
Of beef, veal, lamb, pork, mutton, souse.

"The beautiful Mother is bending
Low where her Baby lies
Helpless and frail, for her tending  ;
But she knows the glorious eyes.
"The Mother smiles and rejoices
While the Baby laughs in the hay     ;
She listens to heavenly voices:
'The child shall be King, one day.'
"O dear little Christ in the manger,
Let me make merry with Thee.
O King, in my hour of danger,
Wilt Thou be strong for me?"

O the snow, the beautiful snow,
Filling the sky and the earth below!
Over the house-tops, over the street,
Over the heads of the people you meet,
Dancing, Flirting, Skimming along. Beautiful snow! it can do nothing wrong.
Flying to kiss a fair lady's cheek                                            ;
Clinging to lips in a frolicsome freak                                        ;
Beautiful snow, from the heavens above,
Pure as an angel and fickle as love!
O the snow, the beautiful snow!
How the flakes gather and laugh as they go!
Whirling about in its maddening fun,
It plays in its glee with every one.
Chasing, Laughing, Hurrying by, It lights up the face and it sparkles the eye ;
And even the dogs, with a bark and a bound,
Snap at the crystals that eddy around.
The town is alive, and its heart in a glow,
To welcome the coming of beautiful snow.
How the wild crowd go swaying along,
Hailing each other with humor and song!
How the gay sledges like meteors flash by,—
Bright for the moment, then lost to the eye!
Ringing, Swinging, Dashing they go Over the crest of the beautiful snow:
Snow so pure when it falls from the sky,
To be trampled in mud by the crowd rushing by                                 ;
To be trampled and tracked by the thousands of feet
Till it blends with the horrible filth in the street.
Once I was pure as the snows,—but I fell:
Fell, like the snow-flakes, from heaven—to hell:
Fell, to be tramped as the filth of the street:
Fell, to be scoffed, to be spit on, and beat.
Pleading, Cursing, Dreading to die, Selling my soul to whoever would buy,
Dealing in shame for a morsel of bread,
Hating the living and fearing the dead.
Merciful God! have I fallen so low?
And yet I was once like this beautiful snow!
Once I was fair as the beautiful snow,
With an eye like its crystals, a heart like its glow                          ;
Once I was loved for my innocent grace,—
Flattered and sought for the charm of my face.
Father, Mother, Sisters all, God, and myself, I have lost by my fall.
The veriest wretch that goes shivering by
Will take a wide sweep, lest I wander too nigh                                ;
For all that is on or about me, I know
There is nothing that's pure but the beautiful snow.
How strange it should be that this beautiful snow
Should fall on a sinner with nowhere to go!
How strange it would be, when the night comes again,
If the snow and the ice struck my desperate brain!
Fainting, Freezing, Dying alone, Too wicked for prayer, too weak for my moan
To be heard in the crash of the crazy town,
Gone mad in its joy at the snow's coming down                                 ;
To lie and to die in my terrible woe,
With a bed and a shroud of the beautiful snow!

Hear the sledges with the bells--
Silver bells!
What a world of merriment their melody foretells!
How they tinkle, tinkle, tinkle,
In their icy air of night!
While the stars, that oversprinkle
All the heavens, seem to twinkle
With a crystalline delight                                 ;
Keeping time, time, time,
In a sort of Runic rhyme,
To the tintinnabulation that so musically wells
From the bells, bells, bells, bells,
Bells, bells, bells--
From the jingling and the tinkling of the bells.
Hear the mellow wedding bells,
Golden bells!
What a world of happiness their harmony foretells!
Through the balmy air of night
How they ring out their delight!
From the molten golden-notes,
And all in tune,
What a liquid ditty floats
To the turtle-dove that listens, while she gloats
On the moon!
Oh, from out the sounding cells,
What a gush of euphony voluminously wells!
How it swells!
How it dwells
On the future! how it tells
Of the rapture that impels
To the swinging and the ringing
Of the bells, bells, bells,
Of the bells, bells, bells, bells,
Bells, bells, bells--
To the rhyming and the chiming of the bells!
Hear the loud alarum bells--
Brazen bells!
What a tale of terror now their turbulency tells!
In the startled ear of night
How they scream out their affright!
Too much horrified to speak,
They can only shriek, shriek,
Out of tune,
In a clamorous appealing to the mercy of the fire,
In a mad expostulation with the deaf and frantic fire
Leaping higher, higher, higher,
With a desperate desire,
And a resolute endeavor
Now--now to sit or never,
By the side of the pale-faced moon.
Oh, the bells, bells, bells!
What a tale their terror tells
Of Despair!
How they clang, and clash, and roar!
What a horror they outpour
On the bosom of the palpitating air!
Yet the ear it fully knows,
By the twanging,
And the clanging,
How the danger ebbs and flows                              ;
Yet the ear distinctly tells,
In the jangling,
And the wrangling,
How the danger sinks and swells,
By the sinking or the swelling in the anger of the bells--
Of the bells--
Of the bells, bells, bells, bells,
Bells, bells, bells--
In the clamor and the clangor of the bells!
Hear the tolling of the bells--
Iron bells!
What a world of solemn thought their monody compels!
In the silence of the night,
How we shiver with affright
At the melancholy menace of their tone!
For every sound that floats
From the rust within their throats
Is a groan.
And the people--ah, the people--
They that dwell up in the steeple.
All alone,
And who tolling, tolling, tolling,
In that muffled monotone,
Feel a glory in so rolling
On the human heart a stone--
They are neither man nor woman--
They are neither brute nor human--
They are Ghouls:
And their king it is who tolls                             ;
And he rolls, rolls, rolls,
Rolls
A paean from the bells!
And his merry bosom swells
With the paean of the bells!
And he dances, and he yells                                ;
Keeping time, time, time,
In a sort of Runic rhyme,
To the paean of the bells--
Of the bells:
Keeping time, time, time,
In a sort of Runic rhyme,
To the throbbing of the bells--
Of the bells, bells, bells--
To the sobbing of the bells                                ;
Keeping time, time, time,
As he knells, knells, knells,
In a happy Runic rhyme,
To the rolling of the bells--
Of the bells, bells, bells--
To the tolling of the bells,
Of the bells, bells, bells, bells,
Bells, bells, bells--
To the moaning and the groaning of the bells.

O Christmas, merry Christmas!
Is it really come again,
With its memories and greetings,
With its joy and with its pain?
There's a minor in the carol,
And a shadow in the light,
And a spray of cypress twining
With the holly wreath to-night.
And the hush is never broken
By laughter light and low,
As we listen in the starlight
To the "bells across the snow."
O Christmas, merry Christmas!
'Tis not so very long
Since other voices blended
With the carol and the song!
If we could but hear them singing
As they are singing now,
If we could but see the radiance
Of the crown on each dear brow     ;
There would be no sigh to smother,
No hidden tear to flow,
As we listen in the starlight
To the "bells across the snow."
O Christmas, merry Christmas!
This never more can be             ;
We cannot bring again the days
Of our unshadowed glee.
But Christmas, happy Christmas,
Sweet herald of good-will,
With holy songs of glory
Brings holy gladness still.
For peace and hope may brighten,
And patient love may glow,
As we listen in the starlight
To the "bells across the snow."

While the little boys cry 'merry Christmas is coming,'
Shall I be as dull as a water-drunk log?
No! I'll sing you a song (for we bards must be humming)
And the burden shall still be, Beware of Egg-nog.
When the bowl mantles over the elegant foam,
And the steam rises up in a silvery tog                 ;
Put by the potation, keep Reason at home,
And think of my warning, Beware of Egg-nog.
When Circe, the witch, caught Ulysses's men,
She gave each a dram that soon made him a hog           ;
The identical mixture--'tis now as 'twas then           ;
So attend to the moral, Beware of Egg-nog.
When the circle is form'd, the glass passes round,
Old Satan draws night, tho', as usual, incog.,
And chuckles to see good Sobriety drown'd--
Would you frustrate his malice--Beware of Egg-nog.
But why do I rail at one liquor this way?
Is no other as fatal                                    ; rum, brandy, or grog?
Yes, yes, they're all one, I mean all when I say,
And I'll say but once more now, Beware of Egg-nog.

God shield ye, comrades of the road!
And while our way we hold,
List while I tell how it first befell
In the wondrous days of old.
From off the sea, the pilgrims came,
With sea-toil wracked and worn              ;
The air blew keen, and the frost was sheen,
Upon that wintry morn.
Through Glastonbury street went they        ;
And ever on, and on,
Till they pass the well of the fairy spell,
And the oak of Avalon.
They hear the rustling leaves and few,
That linger on the bough                    ;
But still they fare through the bitter air,
And climb a hill-slope now.
On Weary-All-Hill their feet they stay
(Full well that Hill ye know)               ;
There may they rest, by toil oppressed,
While round them drops the snow.
And one — far gone in age was he —
As snow, his locks were white —
The staff of thorn which he had borne,
Did plant upon that height.
A thorn-stick dry, that pilgrim staff,
He set it in the ground:
And, swift as sight, with blossoms white
The branching staff was crowned!
Each year since then (if sooth men say)
Upon this Blessed Morn,
Who climbs that Hill, may see at will
The flower upon the thorn!
Howe'er the wind may drive the sleet,
That thorn will blooming be                 ;
And some have seen a fair Child lean
From out that blossomed tree!
One moment only — then, apace,
Both flower and leaf are shorn              ;
And, gaunt and chill, on Weary-All-Hill,
There stands an ancient thorn!
God shield ye, comrades of the road —
With grace your spirits fill,
That ye may see the White-thorn tree
A-bloom on Weary-All-Hill!

Blow, blow, thou winter wind,
Thou art not so unkind
As man's ingratitude                                 ;
Thy tooth is not so keen,
Because thou art not seen,
Although thy breath be rude.
Heigh ho! sing heigh ho! unto the green holly:
Most friendship is feigning, most loving mere folly:
Then, heigh ho! the holly!
This life is most jolly.
Freeze, freeze, thou bitter sky,
That dost not bite so nigh
As benefits forgot:
Though thou the waters warp,
Thy sting is not so sharp
As friend remember'd not.
Heigh ho! sing heigh ho! unto the green holly:
Most friendship is feigning, most loving mere folly:
Then heigh ho, the holly!
This life is most jolly.

As I in hoary winter's night
Stood shivering in the snow,
Surprised I was with sudden heat
Which made my heart to glow                    ;
And lifting up a fearful eye
To view what fire was near,
A pretty babe all burning bright
Did in the air appear                          ;
Who, scorched with excessive heat,
Such floods of tears did shed,
As though His floods should quench His flames,
Which with His tears were bred:
"Alas!" quoth He, "but newly born
In fiery heats I fry,
Yet none approach to warm their hearts
Or feel my fire but I!
"My faultless breast the furnace is            ;
The fuel, wounding thorns                      ;
Love is the fire, and sighs the smoke          ;
The ashes, shames and scorns                   ;
The fuel Justice layeth on,
And Mercy blows the coals,
The metal in this furnace wrought
Are men's defiled souls:
For which, as now on fire I am
To work them to their good,
So will I melt into a bath,
To wash them in my blood."
With this He vanished out of sight
And swiftly shrunk away,
And straight I called unto mind
That it was Christmas Day.

Sweet dreams, form a shade
O'er my lovely infant's head!
Sweet dreams of pleasant streams
By happy, silent, moony beams!
Sweet sleep, with soft down
Weave thy brows an infant crown!
Sweet sleep, angel mild,
Hover o'er my happy child!
Sweet smiles, in the night
Hover over my delight!
Sweet smiles, mother's smile
All the livelong night beguile.
Sweet moans, dovelike sighs,
Chase not slumber from thine eyes!
Sweet moan, sweeter smile,
All the dovelike moans beguile!
Sleep, sleep, happy child!
All creation slept and smiled.
Sleep, sleep, happy sleep,
While o'er thee doth mother weep.
Sweet babe, in thy face
Holy image I can trace              ;
Sweet babe, once like thee
Thy Maker lay and wept for me:
Wept for me, for thee, for all,
When he was an infant small         ;
Thou his image ever see,
Heavenly face that smiles on thee!
Smiles on thee, on me, on all,
Who became an infant small,
Infant smiles are his own smiles:
Heaven and earth to peace beguiles.

O Child of Mary's tender care!
O little Child so pure and fair!
Cradled within the manger hay
On that divine first Christmas day!
The hopes of every age and race
Are centered in Thy radiant face!
O Child whose glory fills the earth!
O little Child of lowly birth!
The shepherds, guided from afar,
Stood worshiping beneath the star,
And wise-men fell on bended knee
And homage offered unto Thee!
O Child of whom the angels sing!
O little Child, our Infant King!
What balm for every sorrow lies
Within those clear, illumined eyes!
O precious gift to mortals given
To win us heritage in Heaven!

When the herds were watching
In the midnight chill,
Came a spotless lambkin
From the heavenly hill.
Snow was on the mountains,
And the wind was cold,
When from God's own garden
Dropped a rose of gold.
When 'twas bitter winter,
Houseless and forlorn
In a star-lit stable
Christ the Babe was born.
Welcome, heavenly lambkin    ;
Welcome, golden rose         ;
Alleluia, Baby,
In the swaddling clothes!

Cold was the day, when in a garden bare,
Walked the Child Jesus, wrapt in holy thought       ;
His brow seemed clouded with a weight of care       ;
Calmness and rest from worldly things he sought.
Soon was his presence missed within his home        ;
His mother gently marked his every way              ;
Forth then she came to seek where he did roam.
Full of sweet words his trouble to allay.
Through chilling snow she toiled to reach his side,
Forcing her way mid branches brown and sere,
Hastening that she his sorrows might divide,
Share all his woe, or calm his gloomy fear.
Sweet was her face, as o'er his head she bent,
Longing to melt his look of saddest grief.
With lifted eyes, his ear to her he lent            ;
Her kindly solace brought his soul relief.
Then did he smile--a smile of love so deep,
Winter himself grew warm beneath its glow           ;
From drooping branches scented blossoms peep        ;
Up springs the grass                                ; the sealed fountains flow.
Summer and spring did with each other vie,
Offering to Him the fragrance of their store        ;
Chanting sweet notes, the birds around him fly,
Wondering why earth had checkered so her floor.

Awake, glad heart! get up and sing!
It is the Birthday of thy King.
Awake! awake!
The sun doth shake
Light from his locks, and, all the way
Breathing perfumes, doth spice the day.
Awake! awake! hark how th' wood rings,
Winds whisper, and the busy springs
A concert make!
Awake! awake!
Man is their high-priest, and should rise
To offer up the sacrifice.
I would I were some bird, or star,
Fluttering in woods, or lifted far
Above this inn,
And road of sin!
Then either star or bird should be
Shining or singing still to thee.
I would I had in my best part
Fit rooms for thee! or that my heart
Where so clean as
Thy manger was!
But I am all filth, and obscene           ;
Yet, if thou wilt, thou canst make clean.
Sweet Jesu! will then. Let no more
This leper haunt and soil thy door!
Cure him, ease him,
O release him!
And let once more, by mystic birth,
The Lord of life be born in earth.

Here comes old Father Christmas,
With sound of fife and drums             ;
With mistletoe about his brows,
So merrily he comes!
His arms are full of all good cheer,
His face with laughter glows,
He shines like any household fire
Amid the cruel snows.
He is the old folks' Christmas           ;
He warms their hearts like wine          ;
He thaws their winter into spring,
And makes their faces shine.
Hurrah for Father Christmas!
Ring all the merry bells!
And bring the grandsires all around
To hear the tale he tells.
Here comes the Christmas angel,
So gentle and so calm                    ;
As softly as the falling flakes
He comes with flute and psalm.
All in a cloud of glory,
As once upon the plain
To shepherd-boys in Jewry,
He brings good news again.
He is the young folks' Christmas         ;
He makes their eyes grow bright
With words of hope and tender thought,
And visions of delight.
Hail to the Christmas angel!
All peace on earth he brings             ;
He gathers all the youths and maids
Beneath his shining wings.
Here comes the little Christ-child,
All innocence and joy,
And bearing gifts in either hand
For every girl and boy.
He tells the tender story
About the Holy Maid,
And Jesus in the manger
Before the oxen laid.
Like any little winter bird
He sings his sweetest song,
Till all the cherubs in the sky
To hear his carol throng.
He is the children's Christmas           ;
They come without a call,
To gather round the gracious Child,
Who bringeth joy to all.
But who shall bring their Christmas
Who wrestle still with life?
Not grandsires, youths, or little folks,
But they who wage the strife—
The fathers and the mothers
Who fight for homes and bread,
Who watch and ward the living,
And bury all the dead?
Ah! by their side at Christmas-tide
The Lord of Christmas stands:
He smooths the furrows from their brow
With strong and tender hands.
"I take my Christmas gift," He saith,
"From thee, tired soul, and he
Who giveth to My little ones
Gives also unto Me."

In the good old times of England,
The merry times of yore,
Our fathers kept the Christmas feast
A dozen days or more:
A spacious hall of ashlet work
Was hung with evergreen,
The mistletoe from the old oak-tree,
And the holly there were seen.
A table in the midst was spread --
A table long and wise --
An ancient knight and ladye fair
Were seated side by side                  ;
The door upon its hinges swung
For tenant and for lord,
And sparkling eyes and ruddy cheeks
Were ranged around the board.
The feast was in profusion spread,
Enough for all to eat                     ;
Hot furmenty for breakfast smoked,
Of milk and husked wheat                  ;
Roast beef and goose and pudding
Made up the dinner cheer                  ;
And every body finished off
With flagons of good beer.
And in the tall old chimney-place
(glowing heard between)
The young folks, cracking nuts and jokes,
On seats of stone were seen               ;
And thus, relates the chronicle,
The sons and daughters fair
Made up their matches all at home,
Nor went away to pair.
The trees bent low with glittering snow,
The frost was on the pane,
The winds held carnival abroad
In every forest-lane                      ;
But while stern winter raged without,
'Twas summer in the hall
Where met our glorious ancestors
To keep the festival.
A health, then, to the good old times,
Of tenant, page, and squire,
Of massive hall, and groaning board,
And blazing Christmas fire                ;
When youthful hearts had naught of care,
And happy age grew green,
And gallant knights and maidens fair
O'er all the land were seen!

This happy day, whose risen sun
Shall set not through eternity,
This holy day when Christ the Lord,
Took on him our humanity,
For little children everywhere
A joyous season still we make,
We bring our precious gifts to them,
Even for the dear child Jesus' sake.

All after pleasures as I rid one day,
My horse and I, both tired, body and mind,
With full cry of affections, quite astray,
I took up in the next inn I could find         ;
There when I came, whom found I but my dear,
My dearest Lord, expecting till the grief
Of pleasures brought me to Him, ready there
To be all passengers' most sweet relief?
O Thou, whose glorious, yet contracted light,
Wrapt in night's mantle, stole into a manger   ;
Since my dark soul and brutish is Thy right,
To man of all beasts be not Thou a stranger:
Furnish and deck my soul, that Thou mayst have
A better lodging, than a rack or grave.

The shepherds sing                                  ; and shall I silent be?
My God, no hymn for Thee?
My soul's a shepherd too                            ; a flock it feeds
Of thoughts, and words, and deeds.
The pasture is Thy words                            ; the streams, Thy grace
Enriching all the place.
Shepherd and flock shall sing, and all my powers
Outsing the daylight hours.
Then we will chide the sun for letting night
Take up his place and right:
We sing one common Lord                             ; wherefore He should
Himself the candle hold.
I will go searching till I find a sun
Shall stay till we have done                        ;
A willing shiner, that shall shine as gladly,
As frost-night suns look sadly.
Then we will sing, and shine all our own day,
And one another pay:
His beams shall cheer my breast, and both so twine,
Till e'en his beams sing, and my music shine.

All after pleasures as I rid one day,
My horse and I, both tired, body and mind,
With full cry of affections, quite astray,
I took up in the next inn I could find         ;
There when I came, whom found I but my dear,
My dearest Lord, expecting till the grief
Of pleasures brought me to Him, ready there
To be all passengers' most sweet relief?
O Thou, whose glorious, yet contracted light,
Wrapt in night's mantle, stole into a manger   ;
Since my dark soul and brutish is Thy right,
To man of all beasts be not Thou a stranger:
Furnish and deck my soul, that Thou mayst have
A better lodging, than a rack or grave.

The shepherds sing                                  ; and shall I silent be?
My God, no hymn for Thee?
My soul's a shepherd too                            ; a flock it feeds
Of thoughts, and words, and deeds.
The pasture is Thy words                            ; the streams, Thy grace
Enriching all the place.
Shepherd and flock shall sing, and all my powers
Outsing the daylight hours.
Then we will chide the sun for letting night
Take up his place and right:
We sing one common Lord                             ; wherefore He should
Himself the candle hold.
I will go searching till I find a sun
Shall stay till we have done                        ;
A willing shiner, that shall shine as gladly,
As frost-night suns look sadly.
Then we will sing, and shine all our own day,
And one another pay:
His beams shall cheer my breast, and both so twine,
Till e'en his beams sing, and my music shine.

Now that the time is come wherein
Our Saviour Christ was born,
The larders full of beef and pork,
The garners filled with corn            ;
As God hath plenty to thee sent,
Take comfort of thy labors,
And let it never thee repent
To feast thy needy neighbors.
Let fires in every chimney be
That people they may warm them          ;
Tables with dishes covered,--
Good victuals will not harm them.
With mutton, veal, beef, pig, and pork,
Well furnish every board                ;
Plum-pudding, furmety, and what
Thy stock will them afford.
No niggard of thy liquor be,
Let it go round thy table               ;
People may freely drink, but not
So long as they are able.
Good customs they may be abused,
Which makes rich men to slack us        ;
This feast is to relieve the poor,
And not to drunken Bacchus.
This, if thou doest,
'Twill credit raise thee                ;
God will thee bless,
And neighbors praise thee.

COME home with me a little space
And browse about our ancient place,
Lay by your wonted troubles here
And have a turn of Christmas cheer.
These sober walls of weathered stone
Can tell a romance of their own,
And these wide rooms of devious line
Are kindly meant in their design.
Sometimes the north wind searches through,
But he shall not be rude to you.
We’ll light a log of generous girth
For winter comfort, and the mirth
Of healthy children you shall see
About a sparkling Christmas tree.
Eleanor, leader of the fold,
Hermione with heart of gold,
Elaine with comprehending eyes,
And two more yet of coddling size,
Natalie pondering all that’s said,
And Mary with the cherub head--
All these shall give you sweet content
And care-destroying merriment,
While one with true madonna grace
Moves round the glowing fire-place
Where father loves to muse aside
And grandma sits in silent pride.
And you may chafe the wasting oak,
Or freely pass the kindly joke
To mix with nuts and home-made cake
And apples set on coals to bake.
Or some fine carol we will sing
In honor of the Manger King
Or hear great Milton’s organ verse
Or Plato’s dialogue rehearse
What Socrates with his last breath
Sublimely said of life and death.
These dear delights we fain would share
With friend and kinsman everywhere,
And from our door see them depart
Each with a little lighter heart.

There are sounds in the sky when the year grows old,
And the winds of the winter blow—
When night and the moon are clear and cold,
And the stars shine on the snow,
Or wild is the blast and the bitter sleet
That beats on the window-pane                           ;
But blest on the frosty hills are the feet
Of the Christmas time again!
Chiming sweet when the night wind swells,
Blest is the sound of the Christmas Bells!
Dear are the sounds of the Christmas chimes
In the land of the ivied towers,
And they welcome the dearest of festival times
In this Western world of ours!
Bright on the holly and mistletoe bough
The English firelight falls,
And bright are the wreathed evergreens now
That gladden our own home walls!
And hark! the first sweet note that tells,
The welcome of the Christmas Bells!
The owl that sits in the ivy's shade,
Remote from the ruined tower,
Shall start from his drowsy watch afraid
When the clock shall strike the hour                    ;
And over the fields in their frosty rhyme
The cheery sounds shall go,
And chime shall answer unto chime
Across the moonlit snow!
How sweet the lingering music dwells,—
The music of the Christmas Bells.
It fell not thus in the East afar
Where the Babe in the manger lay                        ;
The wise men followed their guiding star
To the dawn of a milder day                             ;
And the fig and the sycamore gathered green,
And the palm-tree of Deborah rose                       ;
'Twas the strange first Christmas the world had seen—
And it came not in storm and snows.
Not yet on Nazareth's hills and dells
Had floated the sound of Christmas Bells.
The cedars of Lebanon shook in the blast
Of their own cold mountain air                          ;
But nought o'er the wintry plain had passed
To tell that the Lord was there!
The oak and the olive and almond were still,
In the night now worn and thin                          ;
No wind of the winter-time roared from the hill
To waken the guests at the inn                          ;
No dream to them the music tells
That is to come from the Christmas Bells!
The years that have fled like the leaves on the gale
Since the morn of the Miracle-Birth,
Have widened the fame of the marvellous tale
Till the tidings have filled the earth!
And so in the climes of the icy North,
And the lands of the cane and the palm,
By the Alpine cotter's blazing hearth,
And in tropic belts of calm,
Men list to-night the welcome swells,
Sweet and clear, of Christmas Bells!
They are ringing to-night through the Norway firs,
And across the Swedish fells,
And the Cuban palm-tree dreamily stirs
To the sound of those Christmas Bells!
They ring where the Indian Ganges rolls
Its flood through the rice-fields wide                  ;
They swell the far hymns of the Lapps and Poles
To the praise of the Crucified.
Sweeter than tones of the ocean's shells
Mingle the chimes of the Christmas Bells!
The years come not back that have circled away
With the past of the Eastern land,
When He plucked the corn on the Sabbath day
And healed the withered hand:
But the bells shall join in a joyous chime
For the One who walked the sea,
And ring again for the better time
Of the Christ that is to be!
Then ring!—for earth's best promise dwells
In ye, O joyous Prophet Bells!
Ring out at the meeting of night and morn
For the dawn of a happier day!
Lo, the stone from our faith's great sepulchre torn
The angels have rolled away!
And they come to us here in our low abode,
With words like the sunrise gleam,—
Come down and ascend by that heavenly road
That Jacob saw in his dream.
Spirit of love, that in music dwells,
Open our hearts with the Christmas Bells!
Help us to see that the glad heart prays
As well as the bended knees                             ;
That there are in our own as in ancient days
The Scribes and the Pharisees                           ;
That the Mount of Transfiguration still
Looks down on these Christian lands,
And the glorified ones from that holy hill
Are reaching their helping hands.
These be the words our music tells
Of solemn joy, O Christmas Bells!
I heard the bells on Christmas Day

Their old, familiar carols play,
And wild and sweet
The words repeat
Of peace on earth, good-will to men !
And thought how, as the day had come,
The belfries of all Christendom
Had rolled along
The unbroken song
Of peace on earth, good-will to men !
Till, ringing, singing on its way,
The world revolved from night to day
A voice, a chime,
A chant sublime
Of peace on earth, good-will to men !
Then from each black, accursed mouth,
The cannon thundered in the South,
And with the sound
The carols drowned
Of peace on earth, good-will to men !
It was as if an earthquake rent
The hearth-stones of a continent,
And made forlorn
The households born
Of peace on earth, good-will to men !
And in despair I bowed my head            ;
"There is no peace on earth," I said      ;
"For hate is strong
And mocks the song
Of peace on earth, good-will to men !"
Then pealed the bells more loud and deep:
"God is not dead                          ; nor doth he sleep !
The Wrong shall fail,
The Right prevail,
With peace on earth, good-will to men !"

So crowded was the little town
On the first Christmas day,
Tired Mary Mother laid her down
To rest upon the hay.
(Ah, would my door might have been thrown
Wide open on her way!)
But when the Holy Babe was born
In the deep hush of night,
It seemed as if a Sabbath morn
Had come with sacred light.
Child Jesus made the place forlorn
With his own beauty bright.
The manger rough was all his rest         ;
The cattle, having fed,
Stood silent by, or closer pressed,
And gravely wonderèd.
(Ah, Lord, if only that my breast
Had cradled Thee instead!)

When Christ was born in Bethlehem,
'T was night, but seemed the noon of day     ;
The stars, whose light
Was pure and bright,
Shone with unwavering ray                    ;
But one, one glorious star
Guided the Eastern Magi from afar.
Then peace was spread throughout the land    ;
The lion fed beside the tender lamb          ;
And with the kid,
To pasture led,
The spotted leopard fed                      ;
In peace, the calf and bear,
The wolf and lamb reposed together there.
As shepherds watched their flocks by night,
An angel, brighter than the sun's own light,
Appeared in air,
And gently said,
Fear not,--be not afraid,
For lo! beneath your eyes,
Earth has become a smiling paradise.

ONG time ago, in Palestine,
Upon a wintry morn.
All in a lowly cattle shed,
The clouds fled from the gloomy sky               ;
The winds in silence lay                          ;
And the stars shone bright, with strange delight,
To welcome in that day.
His parents they were simple folk,
And simple lives they led                         ;
And in the ways of righteousness
This little Child was bred.
In gentle thought, and gentle deed,
His early days went by                            ;
And the light His youthful steps did lead
Came down from heaven on high.
He was the friend of all the poor
That wander here below                            ;
It was His only joy on earth
To ease them of their woe.
In vain He trod His holy path,
By sorrow sorely tried                            ;
It was for all mankind He lived,
And for mankind He died.
Like Him, let us be just and pure,
Like Him, be true alway                           ;
That we may find the peace of mind
That never fades away.

Those Christmas bells as sweetly chime,
As on the day when first they rung
So merrily in the olden time,
And far and wide their music flung:
Shaking the tall grey ivied tower,
With all their deep melodious power:
They still proclaim to every ear,
Old Christmas comes but once a year.
Then he came singing through the woods,
And plucked the holly bright and green      ;
Pulled here and there the ivy buds          ;
Was sometimes hidden, sometimes seen —
Half-buried 'neath the mistletoe,
His long beard hung with flakes of snow     ;
And still he ever carolled clear,
Old Christmas comes but once a year.
He merrily came in days of old,
When roads were few, and ways were foul,
Now staggered, — now some ditty trolled,
Now drank deep from his wassail bowl        ;
His holly silvered o'er with frost.
Nor never once his way he lost,
For reeling here and reeling there,
Old Christmas comes but once a year.
The hall was then with holly crowned,
'Twas on the wild-deer's antlers placed     ;
It hemmed the battered armour round,
And every ancient trophy graced.
It decked the boar's head, tusked and grim,
The wassail bowl wreathed to the brim.
A summer-green hung everywhere,
For Christmas comes but once a year.
His jaded steed the armed knight
Reigned up before the abbey gate            ;
By all assisted to alight,
From humble monk, to abbot great.
They placed his lance behind the door,
His armour on the rush-strewn floor         ;
And then brought out the best of cheer,
For Christmas comes but once a year.
The maiden then, in quaint attire,
Loosed from her head the silken hood,
And danced before the yule-clog fire —
The crackling monarch of the wood.
Helmet and shield flashed back the blaze,
In lines of light, like summer rays,
While music sounded loud and clear,
For Christmas comes but once a year.
What, though upon his hoary head,
Have fallen many a winter's snow,
His wreath is still as green and red
As 't was a thousand years ago.
For what has he to do with care?
His wassail bowl and old arm-chair
Are ever standing ready there,
For Christmas comes but once a year.
No marvel Christmas lives so long,
He never knew but merry hours,
His nights were spent with mirth and song,
In happy homes, and princely bowers         ;
Was greeted both by serf and lord,
And seated at the festal board              ;
While every voice cried "Welcome here,"
Old Christmas comes but once a year.
But what care we for days of old,
The knights whose arms have turned to rust,
Their grim boars' heads, and pasties cold,
Their castles crumbled into dust?
Never did sweeter faces go,
Blushing beneath the mistletoe,
Than are to-night assembled here,
For Christmas comes but once a year.
For those old times are dead and gone,
And those who hailed them passed away,
Yet still there lingers many a one,
To welcome in old Christmas Day.
The poor will many a care forget,
The debtor think not of his debt            ;
But, as they each enjoy their cheer,
Wish it was Christmas all the year.
And still around those good old times
We hang like friends full loth to part,
We listen to the simple rhymes
Which somehow sink into the heart,
"Half musical, half melancholy,"
Like childish smiles that still are holy,
A masquer's face dimmed with a tear,
For Christmas comes but once a year.
The bells which usher in that morn,
Have ever drawn my mind away
To Bethlehem, where Christ was born,
And the low stable where He lay,
In which the large-eyed oxen fed            ;
To Mary bowing low her head,
And looking down with love sincere,
Such thoughts bring Christmas once a year.
At early day the youthful voice,
Heard singing on from door to door,
Makes the responding heart rejoice,
To know the children of the poor
For once are happy all day long             ;
We smile and listen to the song,
The burthen still remote or near,
"Old Christmas comes but once a year."
Upon a gayer happier scene,
Never did holly berries peer,
Or ivy throw its trailing green,
On brighter forms than there are here,
Nor Christmas in his old arm-chair
Smile upon lips and brows more fair,
Then let us sing amid our cheer,
Old Christmas still comes once a year.

The rain is cold, the sky is pitch,
Above the city’s lengthening piles,
Gleaming across an inky ditch,
The glimmering lamp-lights stretch for miles.
‘Tis Christmas Eve, nor late though dark     ;
Still out upon the busy street
The windows shine, and one can mark
The passers hurrying through the sleet.
One hastens on with heavy tread                ;
Had any tried his face to scan,
“ A common man,” they would have said      ;
Thank God! he was “a common man.”
More lonely grew the way he took,
And once he stopped, amid the rain,
To cast a bright ungrudging look
On what he saw through lighted pane.
A Christmas feast! a table spread!
A cheerful glow of lamp and fire!
A heap of children, head o’er head,
And one in arms uplifted higher!—
Uplifted to the father’s lips!
But just as he had kissed the boy,
They closed the curtains, and eclipse
Fell on the sharer of his joy,
Who sighs, and on his way doth wend,—
A shadow on his face hath come.
What waits him at his journey’s end?
A cheerless hearth? a joyless home?
Nay, both as any warm and bright,
And wont to light his weariest way,
Through longest road and blackest night,
But now the brightness fades away.
No small feet cross that stainless hearth,
Or patter on that dainty floor!
Ono pair, long laid in wintry earth,
Will greet his coming never more.
Yet rest and hearty cheer await
Our dripping wayfarer                          ; for him
Tho board is spread in simple state,
The curtained bed stands white and trim.
The housewife sits, with musing eye,
Contemplating her labours done                 ;
Her Christmas cheer, her own mince-pie,
Her ample store of cake and bun.
She sighed in fullness of content,
And then she gave another sigh,—
“What’s all the good of this,” it meant,
“With none to eat but John and I?“
Frugal she was, nor much would take
Or give                                        ; what moved the worthy soul?
She rose and took her largest cake,
And forth on gentle errand stole.
Across the way a neighbour dwelt
With many little mouths to feed                ;
Heart-sickening care who daily felt,
For failing strength and growing need.
To them her Christmas gift she took,
Leaving ajar the cottage door,
Painting each sharer’s joyful look,
The weltering road she hastened o’er.
And through the storm swift-falling—Hark!
Was that a sob? One moment nigh,
A wild face peered from out the dark—
Some woeful heart was passing by.
The dame had lingered for a space,
And now upon the threshold met
Her spouse, and, with a radiant face,
Shut out the darkness and the wet.
A little stir their entrance makes,
But soon a genial quiet falls                  ;
When, lo! an infant’s wail awakes
Within the unaccustomed walls.
And both are in mid-speech struck mute,
And quick, with startled looks, arise,
And listening stand—nor stir a foot—
Till, hark! again those plaining cries!
Then moving to the couch, that stands
So white and trim, they—half in awe,
And curious half—with eager hands,
Aside the snowy curtains draw.
And there it lay, a tiny thing
All meanly clad and weeping sore               ;
Such tears no elvish trick could wring,
No less than mortal grief could pour.
Soon as the baby-form was prest
In woman’s arms, it hushed its cries         ;
And turned toward the mother’s breast
With quivering lips and drowning eyes
They bring it to the light, nor mark
Without—the wreck of woe and sin—
A form that crouches in the dark,
A wild white face that peers within,
Praying the woman-soul to save
Her babe: and to that peaceful hearth
She saw the kiss that welcome gave,
And fled an outcast of the earth.
The cautious dame had questioned still
The bounds of charity and right,
Although her inmost soul would thrill
Above the babe that blessed night.
But for a whisper in her ear,
That boundless love that hour had claim
“A Christmas gift, we’ll keep it, dear,
It was to-night the Saviour came.”

Though rude winds usher thee, sweet day,
Though clouds thy face deform,
Though nature's grace is swept away
Before thy sleety storm                   ;
E'en in thy sombrest wintry vest,
Of blessed days thou art most blest.
Nor frigid air nor gloomy morn
Shall check our jubilee                   ;
Bright is the day when Christ was born,
No sun need shine but He                  ;
Let roughest storms their coldest blow,
With love of Him our hearts shall glow.
Inspired with high and holy thought,
Fancy is on the wing                      ;
It seems as to mine ear it brought
Those voices carolling,
Voices through heaven and earth that ran,
Glory to God, good-will to man.
I see the shepherds gazing wild
At those fair spirits of light            ;
I see them bending o'er the child
With that untold delight,
Which marks the face of those who view
Things but too happy to be true.
There, in the lowly manger laid,
Incarnate God they see,
He stoops to take, through spotless maid,
Our frail humanity                        ;
Son of high God, creations Heir,
He leaves His heaven to raise us there.
Through Him, Lord, we are born anew,
Thy children once again,
Oh, day by day our hearts renew,
That Thine we may remain                  ;
And angel-like, may all agree,
One sweet and holy family.
Oft as this joyous morn doth come
To speak our Saviour's love,
Oh, may it bear our spirits home
Where He now reigns above                 ;
That day which brought Him from the skies
So man restores to Paradise.
Then let winds usher thee, sweet day,
Let clouds thy face deform,
Though nature's grace is swept away
Before thy sleety storm                   ;
E'en in thy sombrest wintry vest,
Of blessed days thou art most blest.

Christians, awake! salute the happy Morn
Whereon the Saviour of the World was born
Rise to adore the Mystery of Love
Which Hosts of Angels chanted from above
With them the joyful Tidings first begun
Of God incarnate and the Virgins Son
Then to the watchful Shepherds it was told
Who heard the Angelic Herald's Voice, behold!
I bring good Tidings of a Saviours Birth,
To you and all the Nations of the Earth:
This day hath God fulfill'd his promised Word      ;
This day is born a Saviour, Christ (?) the Lord
In David City, Shepherds, ye shall find
The long-foretold redeemer of Mankind
Wrapt up in swaddling cloaths, be this the sign
A Cratch contains the holy Babe divine
He spake, and straightway the celestial Quire
In Hymns of Joy unknown before conspire
The Praises of redeeming love they sang
And Heaven's whole Orb with hallelujahs rang
God's Highest Glory was their anthem still (?)
Peace upon Earth, and mutual Good Will
To Bethlehem straight th'enlighten'd Shepherds ran
To see the wonder God had wrought for Man
They saw their Saviour as the Angel said
The Swaddled Infant in the Manger laid
Joseph & Mary a distressed pair
Guard the sold object of th'almighty's Care (?)
To human eyes none present but they two
Where Heav'n was pointing its concentrated View
Amaz'd the wondrous Story proclaim
The first apostles of his Infant Fame
But Mary kept and pondered in her Heart
The heavenly Vision which the Swains impart.
They to their Flocks and praising God return
With Hearts no doubt (?) did within them burn
Let us like these good Shepherds then employ
Our grateful Voices to proclaim the Joy
Like Mary let us ponder in our Mind
God's wondrous Love in saving lost Mankind
Artless an watchful as these favour'd Swains
While Virgin Meekness in the Heart remains,
Trace we the Babe that has retriev'd our Loss
From his poor Manger to his bitter cross
Follow we him who has our Cause maintain'd
And Man's first heav'nly state shall be regain'd

Alone — with one fair star for company,
The lovliest star among the hosts of night,
While the grey tide ebbs with the ebbing light —
I peace along the darkening wintry sea.
Now round the yule log and the glittering tree
Twinkling with festive tapers, eyes as bright
Sparkle with Christmas joys and young delight,
As each one gathers to his family.
But I — a waif on earth where'er I roam —
Uprooted with life's bleeding hopes and fears
From that one heart that was my heart's sole home,
Feel the old pang pierce through the severing years,
And as I think upon the years to come
That fair star trembles through my falling tears.

The holly! the holly! oh, twine it with bay —
Come give the holly a song                               ;
For it helps to drive stern winter away,
With his garment so sombre and long                      ;
It peeps through the trees with its berries of red,
And its leaves of burnished green,
When the flowers and fruits have long been dead,
And not even the daisy is seen.
Then sing to the holly, the Christmas holly,
That hangs over peasant and king                         ;
While we laugh and carouse 'neath its glittering boughs,
To the Christmas holly we'll sing.
The gale may whistle, the frost may come
To fetter the gurgling rill                              ;
The woods may be bare, and warblers dumb,
But holly is beautiful still.
In the revel and light of princely halls
The bright holly branch is found                         ;
And its shadow falls on the lowliest walls,
While the brimming horn goes round.
Then sing to the holly, the Christmas holly,
That hangs over peasant and king                         ;
While we laugh and carouse 'neath its glittering boughs,
To the Christmas holly we'll sing.
The ivy lives long, but its home must be
Where graves and ruins are spread                        ;
There's beauty about the cypress tree,
But it flourishes near the dead                          ;
The laurel the warrior's brow may wreathe,
But it tells of tears and blood                          ;
I sing the holly, and who can breathe
Aught of that that is not good?
Then sing to the holly, the Christmas holly,
That hangs over peasant and king                         ;
While we laugh and carouse 'neath its glittering boughs,
To the Christmas holly we'll sing.

Good husband and housewife, now chiefly be glad
Things handsome to have, as they ought to be had,
They both do provide against Christmas do come,
To welcome their neighbour, good cheer to have some  ;
Good bread and good drink, a good fire in the hall,
Brawn pudding and souse, and good mustard withal.
Beef, mutton, and pork, shred pies of the best,
Pig, veal, goose, and capon, and turkey well dressed ;
Cheese, apples, and nuts, jolly carols to hear,
As then in the country is counted good cheer.
What cost to good husband is any of this,
Good household provision only it is                  ;
Of other the like I do leave out a many,
That costeth the husbandman never a penny.

No trumpet-blast profaned
The hour in which the Prince of Peace was born        ;
No bloody streamlet stained
Earth's silver rivers on that sacred morn             ;
But, o'er the peaceful plain,
The war-horse drew the peasant's loaded wain. -
The soldier had laid by
The sword and stripped the corselet from his breast,
And hung his helm on high-
The sparrow's winter home and summer nest             ;
And, with the same strong hand
That flung the barbed spear, he tilled the land. -
Oh, time for which we yearn                           ;
Oh, sabbath of the nations long foretold!
Season of peace, return,
Like a late summer when the year grows old,
When the sweet sunny days
Steeped mead and mountain-side in golden haze. -
For now two rival kings
Flaunt, o'er our bleeding land, their hostile flags,
And every sunrise brings
The hovering vulture from his mountain-crags
To where the battle-plain
Is strewn with dead, the youth and flower of Spain. -
Christ is not come, while yet
O'er half the earth the threat of battle lowers,
And our own fields are wet,
Beneath the battle-cloud, with crimson showers-
The life-blood of the slain,
Poured out where thousands die that one may reign. -
Soon, over half the earth,
In every temple crowds shall kneel again
To celebrate His birth
Who brought the message of good-will to men,
And bursts of joyous song
Shall shake the roof above the prostrate throng. -
Christ is not come, while there
The men of blood whose crimes affront the skies
Kneel down in act of prayer,
Amid the joyous strains, and when they rise
Go forth, with sword and flame,
To waste the land in His most holy name. -
Oh, when the day shall break
O'er realms unlearned in warfare's cruel arts,
And all their millions wake
To peaceful tasks performed with loving hearts,
On such a blessed morn,
Well may the nations say that Christ is born. - -

Heap on more wood! — the wind is chill   ;
But let it whistle as it will,
We'll keep our Christmas merry still.
Each age has deemed the new born year
The fittest time for festal cheer.
And well our Christian sires of old.
Loved when the year its course had rolled,
And brought blithe Christmas back again,
With all his hospitable train.
Domestic and religious rite
Gave honour to the holy night:
On Christmas eve the bells were rung       ;
On Christmas eve the mass was sung         ;
That only night, in all the year,
Saw the stoled priest the chalice rear.
The damsel donned her kirtle sheen         ;
The hail was dressed with holly green      ;
Forth to the wood did merry men go,
To gather in the mistletoe,
Then opened wide the baron's hail
To vassal, tenant, serf, and all           ;
Power laid his rod of rule aside,
And ceremony doff'd his pride.
The heir, with roses in his shoes,
That night might village partner choose.
The lord, underogating, share
The vulgar game of "post and pair!'
All hailed with uncontroll'd delight
And general voice, the happy night
That to the cottage, as the crown,
Brought tidings of salvation down.

The fire with well dried logs supplied,
Went roaring up the chimney wide           ;
The huge hail table's oaken face,
Scrubb'd till it shone, the day to grace,
Bore then upon: its massive board
No mark to part the squire and lord.
Then was brought in the lusty brawn,
By old, blue-coated serving-man            ;
Then the grim boar's head frowned on high,
Crested with bays and rosemary.
Well can the green-garbed ranger tell,
How, when, and where, the monster fell     ;
What dogs before his death he tore,
And all the baiting of the boar.
The wassail round in good brown bowls,
Garnished with ribbon, blithely trowls.
There the huge sirloin reeked: hard by
Plum-porridge stood, and Christmas pie     ;
Nor failed old Scotland to produce
At such high tide her savoury goose.

Then came the merry masquers in,
And carols roar'd with blithesome din       ;
If unmelodious was the song,
It was a hearty note, and strong.
Who lists may in their mumming see
Traces of ancient mystery                   ;
White shirts supplied the masquerade,
And smutted cheeks the visor made
But oh! what masquers, richly dight,
Can boast of bosoms half so light!
England was merry England when
Old Christmas brought his sports again.
'Twas Christmas broached the mightiest ale,
'Twas Christmas told the merriest tale      ;
A Christmas gambol oft would cheer
A poor man's heart through half the year.

Christmas is come, hang on the pot,
Let spits turn round and ovens be hot       ;
Beef, pork, and poultry now provide,
To feast thy neighbours at this tide        ;
Then wash all down with good wine and beer,
And so with Mirth conclude the Year.

Now Christmas comes, 'tis fit that we
Should feast and sing, and merry be        ;
Keep open house, let fiddlers play         ;
A fig for cold, fling care away.
And may they who there at repine,
On brown bread and on the small beer dine.

When New Year's Day is past and gone    ;
Christmas is with some people done      ;
But further some will it extend
And at Twelfth Day their Christmas end.
Some people stretch it further yet,
At Candlemas they finish it.

The Minstrels played their Christmas tune
To-night beneath my cottage-eaves           ;
While, smitten by a lofty moon,
The' encircling Laurels, thick with leaves,
Gave back a rich and dazzling sheen,
That overpowered their natural green.

Through hill and valley every breeze
Had sunk to rest with folded wings           ;
Keen was the air, but could not freeze
Nor check, the music of the strings          ;
So stout and hardy were the band
That scrap'd the chords with strenuous hand.

And who but listen'd? — till was paid
Respect to every Inmate's claim         ;
The greeting given, the music played,
In honour of each household name,
Duly pronounc'd with lusty call,
And "merry Christmas" wish'd to all!

O Brother! I revere the choice
That took thee from thy native hills ;
And it is given thee to rejoice:
Though public care full often tills
(Heaven only witness of the toil)
A barren and ungrateful soil.

Yet, would that Thou, with me and mine,
Hadst heard this never-failing rite       ;
And seen on other faces shine
A true revival of the light               ;
Which Nature, and these rustic Powers,
In simple childhood, spread through ours!

For pleasure hath not ceased to wait
On these expected annual rounds,
Whether the rich man's sumptuous gate
Call forth the unelaborate sounds,
Or they are offered at the door
That guards the lowliest of the poor.

How touching, when, at midnight, sweep
Snow-muffled winds, and all is dark,
To hear — and sink again to sleep!
Or, at an earlier call, to mark,
By blazing fire, the still suspense
Of self-complacent innocence           ;

The mutual nod, — the grave disguise
Of hearts with gladness brimming o'er   ;
And some unbidden tears that rise
For names once heard, and heard no more ;
Tears brightened by the serenade
For infant in the cradle laid!

Ah! not for emerald fields alone,
With ambient streams more pure and bright
Than fabled Cytherea's zone *
Glittering before the Thunderer's sight,
Is to my heart of hearts endeared,
The ground where we were born and rear'd!

Hail, ancient Manners! sure defence,
Where they survive, of wholesome laws   ;
Remnants of love whose modest sense
Thus into narrow room withdraws         ;
Hail, Usages of pristine mould,
And ye, that guard them, Mountains old!

Bear with me, Brother! quench the thought
That slights this passion, or condemns    ;
If thee fond Fancy ever brought
From the proud margin of the Thames,
And Lambeth's venerable towers,
To humbler streams, and greener bowers.

Yes, they can make, who fail to find,
Short leisure even in busiest days          ;
Moments — to cast a look behind,
And profit by those kindly rays
That through the clouds do sometimes steal,
And all the far-off past reveal.

Hence, while the imperial City's din
Beats frequent on thy satiate ear,
A pleased attention I may win
To agitations less severe,
That neither overwhelm nor cloy,
But fill the hollow vale with joy!

Now holier thoughts awake my rhyme,
The village bells with pealing chime  ;
And sweeter far their notes to me
Than those of loudest revelry.
To wonder heaven-pointing spire
Is bent the charitable Squire,
Where consecrated branches spread
Their weeping tendrils o'er the dead  ;
While there the elm and sable yew
Lend all their ruggedness to view,
Nor shield they now with leafy bloom
The villager's unsculptured tomb      ;
As when, with summer foliage crowned,
They hid from gaze each little mound.
Lo, where a goodly blooming train,
The maiden artless, and the swain     ;
They hear the summons from afar,
And gather where the holy are.
The aged sire there bends his way,
No staff his feeble arm to stay,
But one whose joy has been to share,
As now, thro' life his pious prayer.
They hie their tribute just to pay
To Him who lengthened has their day   ;
Within you deeply shaded pile
Where meek Religion's seen to smile,
As if the wayward to beguile          ;
While decked with modest evergreen
Her sanctuary may be seen             ;
A token sure of heavenly grace,
Befitting such a holy place.
The Squire upon his bended knee,
With all him family we see,
Gracing the velvet cushioned pew
With every meek observance due.
O may each humble heart now share
The Church's venerable prayer,
And may this day of all the year
The best and holiest appear:
And 'mid our deep affliction show
The bliss unmerited below,
Which Christ descended to bestow.

COME all you weary wanderers,
Beneath the wintry sky                    ;
This day forget your worldly cares,
And lay your sorrows by                   ;
Awake, and sing
The church bells ring                     ;
For this is Christmas morning!
With grateful hearts salute the morn,
And swell the streams of song,
That laden with great joy are borne,
The willing air along                     ;
The tidings thrill
With right good will                      ;
For this is Christmas morning!
We'll twine the fresh green holly wreath,
And make the yule-log low                 ;
And gather gaily underneath
The winking mistletoe                     ;
All blithe and bright
By the glad fire-light                    ;
For this is Christmas morning!
Come, sing the carols old and true,
That mind us of good cheer,
And, like a heavenly fall of dew,
Revive the drooping year                  ;
And fill us up
A wassail-cup                             ;
For this is Christmas morning!
To all poor souls we I strew the feast,
With kindly heart, and free               ;
One Father owns us, and, at least,
To-day we'll brothers be                  ;
Away with pride,
This holy tide                            ;
For it is Christmas morning!
So now, God bless us one and all
With hearts and hearthstones warm
And may He prosper great and small,
And keep us out of harm                   ;
And teach us still,
His sweet good-will,
This merry Christmas morning!

Low in the east, against a white, cold dawn,
The black-lined silhouette of the woods was drawn,
And on a wintry waste
Of frosted streams and hillsides bare and brown,
Through thin cloud-films a pallid ghost looked down,
The waning moon half-faced.

In that pale sky and sere, snow-waiting earth,
What sign was there of the immortal birth?
What herald of the One?
Lo! swift as thought the heavenly radiance came,
A rose-red splendor swept the sky like flame,
Up rolled the round, bright sun!

And all was changed. From a transfigured world
The moon's ghost fled, the smoke of home-hearths curled
Up to the still air unblown.
In Orient warmth and brightness, did that morn
O'er Nain and Nazereth, when the Christ was born,
Break fairer than our own?

The morning's promise noon and eve fulfilled
In warm, soft sky and landscape hazy-filled
And sunset fair as they                      ;
A sweet reminder of His holiest time,
A summer-miracle in our winter clime,
God gave a perfect day.

The near was blended with the old and far,
And Bethlehem's hillside and the Magi's star
Seemed here, as there and then, --
Our homestead pine-tree was the Syrian palm,
Our heart's desire the angels' midnight psalm,
Peace, and good-will to men!

Three weeks before the day whereon was born the Lord of grace,
And on the Thursday, boys and girls do run in every place,
And bounce and beat at every door, with blows and lusty snaps,
And cry the advent of the Lord, not born as yet, perhaps:
And wishing to the neighbors all, that in the houses dwell,
A happy year, and everything to spring and prosper well:
Here have they pears, and plums, and pence                          ; each man gives willingly,
For these three nights are always thought unfortunate to be,
Wherein they are afraid of sprites and cankered witches' spite,
And dreadful devils, black and grim, that then have chiefest might.

In these same days, young, wanton girls that meet for marriage be,
Do search to know the names of them that shall their husbands be.
Four onions, five, or eight they take, and make in every one
Such names as they do fancy most and best do think upon.
Thus near the chimney then they set, and that same onion than
The first doth sprout doth surely bear the name of their good man.
Their husband's nature eke they seek to know and all his guise:
When as the sun hath hid himself, and left the starry skies,
Unto some woodstack do they go, and while they there do stand,
Each one draws out a fagot stick, the next that comes to hand,
Which if it straight and even be, and have no knots at all,
A gentle husband then they think shall surely to them fall         ;
But, if it foul and crooked be, and knotty here and there,
A crabbed, churlish husband then they earnestly do fear.

Then comes the day wherein the Lord did bring his birth to pass,
Whereas at midnight up they rise, and every man to Mass.
This time so holy counted is, that divers earnestly
Do think the waters all to wine are changed suddenly
In that same hour that Christ himself was born and came to light,
And unto water straight again transformed and altered quite.
There are beside that mindfully the money still do watch
That first to altar comes, which then they privily do snatch.
The priests, lest other should it have, take oft the same away,
Whereby they think throughout the year to have good luck in play,
And not to lose: then straight at game till daylight do they strive
To make some present proof how well their hallowed pence will thrive.

This done, a wooden child in clouts is on the altar set,
About the which both boys and girls do dance and trimly get,
And carols sing in praise of Christ, and for to help them here,
The organs answer every verse with sweet and solemn cheer.
The priests do roar aloud, and round about the parents stand,
To see the sport, and with their voice do help them and their hand.
Thus wont the Coribants perhaps upon the mountain Ide,
The crying noise of Jupiter, new born, with song to hide,
To dance about him round, and on their brazen pans to beat,
Lest that his father, finding him, should him destroy and eat.

Then followeth Saint Stephen's Day, whereon doth every man
His horses jaunt and course abroad, as swiftly as he can.
Until they do extremely sweat, and then they let them blood,
For this being done upon this day, they say doth do them good,
And keeps them from all maladies and sickness through the year,
As if that Stephen any time took charge of horses here.
Next, John, the son of Zebedee, hath his appointed day,
Who once, by cruel tyrant's will, constrained was, they say,
Strong poison up to drink, therefore the Papists do believe
That whoso puts their trust in him, no poison them can grieve.
The wine beside that hallowed is, in worship of his name,
The priests do give the people that bring money for the same.
And after with the selfsame wine are little manchets 1 made,
Against the boisterous winter storms, and sundry such like trade.
The men upon this solemn day do take this holy wine,
To make them strong, so do the maids to make them fair and fine.

Then comes the day that calls to mind the cruel Herod's strife,
Who seeking Christ to kill, the King of everlasting life,
Destroyed all the infants young, a beast unmerciless,
And put to death all such as were of two years age or less.
To them the sinful wretches cry and earnestly do pray
To get them pardon for their faults, and wipe their sins away.
The parents, when this day appears, do beat their children all
Though nothing they deserve, and servants all to beating fall,
And monks do whip each other well, or else their Prior great,
Or Abbot mad, doth take in hand their breeches all to beat
In worship of these Innocents, or rather, as we see,
In honor of the cursed king that did this cruelty.

The next to this is New-Year's Day, whereon to every friend
They costly presents in do bring and New-Year's gifts do send.
These gifts the husband gives his wife, and father eke the child,
And master on his men bestows the like, with favor mild,
And good beginning of the year they wish and wish again,
According to the ancient guise of heathen people vain.
These eight days no man doth require his debts of any man,
Their tables do they furnish out with all the meat they can:
With marchpanes, tarts, and custards great they drink with staring eyes,
They rout and revel, feed and feast as merry all as pies,
As if they should at the entrance of this New Year have to die,
Yet would they have their bellies full and ancient friends ally.

The Wise Men's day here followeth, who out from Persia far,
Brought gifts and presents unto Christ, conducted by a star.
The Papists do believe that these were kings, and so them call,
And do affirm that of the same there were but three in all.
Here sundry friends together come, and meet in company,
And make a king amongst themselves by voice or destiny           ;
Who, after princely guise, appoints his officers alway,
Then unto feasting do they go, and long time after play:
Upon their boards, in order thick, their dainty dishes stand,
Till that their purses empty be and creditors at hand.
Their children herein follow them, and choosing princes here,
With pomp and great solemnity, they meet and make good cheer
With money either got by stealth, or of their parents eft,
That so they may be trained to know both riot here and theft.
Then, also, every householder, to his ability,
Doth make a mighty cake that may suffice his company:
Herein a penny doth he put, before it comes to fire,
This he divides according as his household doth require          ;
And every piece distributeth, as round about they stand,
Which in their names unto the poor is given out of hand.
But whoso chanceth on the piece wherein the money lies
Is counted king amongst them all, and is with shouts and cries
Exalted to the heavens up, who, taking chalk in hand,
Doth make a cross on every beam and rafters as they stand:
Great force and power have these against all injuries and harms,
Of cursed devils, sprites and bugs, of conjurings and charms,
So much this king can do, so much the crosses bring to pass,
Made by some servant, maid or child, or by some foolish ass!

Twice six nights then from Christmas they do count with diligence,
Wherein each master in his house doth burn up frankincense:
And on the table sets a loaf, when night approacheth near,
Before the coals and frankincense to be perfumed there:
First bowing down his head he stands, and nose, and ears, and eyes
He smokes, and with his mouth receives the fume that doth arise         ;
Whom followeth straight his wife, and doth the same full solemnly,
And of their children every one, and all their family:
Which doth preserve, they say, their teeth, and nose, and eyes, and ear
From every kind of malady and sickness all the year.
When every one received hath this odor great and small,
Then one takes up the pan with coals, and frankincense and all.
Another takes the loaf, whom all the rest do follow here,
And round about the house they go, with torch or taper clear,
That neither bread nor meat do want                                     ; nor witch with dreadful charm
Have power to hurt their children, or to do their cattle harm.
There are that three nights only do perform this foolish gear,
To this intent, and think themselves in safety all the year.
To Christ dare none commit himself. And in these days beside
They judge what weather all the year shall happen and betide:
Ascribing to each day a month, and at this present time
The youth in every place do flock, and all apparelled fine,
With pipers through the streets they run, and sing at every door
In commendation of the man, rewarded well therefore,
Which on themselves they do bestow, or on the church as though
The people were not plagued with rogues and begging friars enow.
There cities are where boys and girls together still do run
About the streets with like as soon as night begins to come,
And bring abroad their wassail-bowls, who well rewarded be
With cakes, and cheese, and great good cheer, and money plenteously.

Christmas comes! He comes, he comes,
Ushered with a rain of plums            ;
Hollies in the windows greet him        ;
Schools come driving post to meet him   ;
Gifts precede him, bells proclaim him,
Every mouth delights to name him        ;
Wet, and cold, and wind, and dark
Make him but the warmer mark            ;
And yet he comes not one-embodied,
Universal's the blithe godhead,
And in every festal house
Presence hath ubiquitous.
Curtains, those snug room-enfolders,
Hang upon his million shoulders,
And he has a million eyes
Of fire, and eats a million pies,
And is very merry and wise              ;
Very wise and very merry,
And loves a kiss beneath the berry.
Then full many a shape hath he,
All in said ubiquity:
Now is he a green array,
And now an "eve," and now a "day;"
Now he's town gone _out_ of town,
And now a feast in civic gown,
And now the pantomime and clown
With a crack upon the crown,
And all sorts of tumbles down           ;
And then he's music in the night,
And the money gotten by't:
He's a man that can't write verses,
Bringing some to ope your purses:
He's a turkey, he's a goose,
He's oranges unfit for use              ;
He's a kiss that loves to grow
Underneath the mistletoe                ;
And he's forfeits, cards, and wassails,
And a king and queen with vassals,
All the "quizzes" of the time
Drawn and quarter'd with a rhyme        ;
And then, for their revival's sake,
Lo! he's an enormous cake,
With a sugar on the top,
Seen before in many a shop,
Where the boys could gaze forever,
They think the cake so very clever.
Then, some morning, in the lurch
Leaving romps, he goes to church,
Looking very grave and thankful,
After which he's just as prankful.
Now a saint, and now a sinner,
But, above all, he's a dinner           ;
He's a dinner, where you see
Everybody's family                      ;
Beef, and pudding, and mince-pies,
And little boys with laughing eyes,
Whom their seniors ask arch questions,
Feigning fears of indigestions
As if they, forsooth, the old ones,
Hadn't, privately, tenfold ones:
He's a dinner and a fire,
Heap'd beyond your heart's desire,--
Heap'd with log, and bak'd with coals,
Till it roasts your very souls,
And your cheek the fire outstares,
And you all push back your chairs,
And the mirth becomes too great,
And you all sit up too late,
Nodding all with too much head,
And so go off to too much bed.

O plethora of beef and bliss!
Monkish feaster, sly of kiss!
Southern soul in body Dutch!
Glorious time of great Too-Much!
Too much heat and too much noise,
Too much babblement of boys              ;
Too much eating, too much drinking,
Too much ev'rything but thinking         ;
Solely bent to laugh and stuff,
And trample upon base Enough.
Oh, right is thy instructive praise
Of the wealth of Nature's ways!
Right thy most unthrifty glee,
And pious thy mince-piety!
For, behold! great Nature's self
Builds her no abstemious shelf,
But provides (her love is such
For all) her own great, good Too-Much,--
Too much grass, and too much tree,
Too much air, and land, and sea,
Too much seed of fruit and flower,
And fish, an unimagin'd dower!
(In whose single roe shall be
Life enough to stock the sea,--
Endless ichthyophagy!)
Ev'ry instant through the day
Worlds of life are thrown away           ;
Worlds of life, and worlds of pleasure,
Not for lavishment of treasure,
But because she's so immensely
Rich, and loves us so intensely.
She would have us, once for all,
Wake at her benignant call,
And all grow wise, and all lay down
Strife, and jealousy, and frown,
And, like the sons of one great mother,
Share, and be blest, with one another.

Now Christmas comes with frost and snow,
When men do feast, or should do so       ;
When lusty diet, and the bowl
Should round the table troll,
And cooks prepare their poignant meat,
To teach the palate how to eat,
And every disk invite the sight
To a new hungry appetite                 ;
The while musicians sing and play,
With mirth to pass the time away.
For mirth, being mixed with our meat,
Gives better appetite to eat.

But now the times are altered so,
When Christmas is, we scarce can know.
But, for these two things put together,
Men's hearts are hard, so is the weather
But which are hardest of the two?
Men's hearts are, without more ado.
O, may those who have richest store,
And do refuse to feast the poor,
Whilst they are served with every dish
That coin can buy, or heart can wish —
O, may they still have store of meat,
But stomach none, the same to eat.

Provide for Christmas ere that it do come,
To feast thy neighbor good cheer to have some   ;
Good bread and drink, a fire in the hall,
Brawn, pudding, souse, and good mustard withal.
Beef, mutton, pork, and shred pies of the best,
Pig, veal, goose, capon, and turkey well drest  ;
Apples and nuts to throw about the hall,
That boys and girls may scramble for them all.
Sing jolly carols, make the fiddlers play,
Let scrupulous fanatics keep away               ;
For oftentimes seen no arranter knave
Than some who do counterfeit most to be grave.

Hushed are the pigeons cooing low
On dusty rafters of the loft        ;
And mild-eyed oxen, breathing soft,
Sleep on the fragrant hay below.

Dim shadows in the corner hide            ;
The glimmering lantern's rays are shed
Where one young lamb just lifts his head,
Then huddles 'gainst his mother's side.

Strange silence tingles in the air ;
Through the half-open door a bar
Of light from one low-hanging star
Touches a baby's radiant hair.

No sound: the mother, kneeling, lays
Her cheek against the little face.
Oh human love! Oh heavenly grace!
'Tis yet in silence that she prays!

Ages of silence end to-night        ;
Then to the long-expectant earth
Glad angels come to greet His birth
In burst of music, love, and light!

Why do bells for Christmas ring?
Why do little children sing?

Once a lovely, shining star,
Seen by shepherds from afar,
Gently moved until its light
Made a manger-cradle bright.

There a darling baby lay
Pillowed soft upon the hay.
And his mother sang and smiled,
"This is Christ, the holy child."

So the bells for Christmas ring,
So the little children sing.

When the merry spring-time weaves
Its peeping bloom and dewy leaves                      ;
When the primrose opes its eye,
And the young moth flutters by                         ;
When the plaintive turtle-dove
Pours its notes of peace and love                      ;
And the clear sun flings its glory bright and wide –
Yet my soul will own
More joy in winter's frown,
And wake with warmer flush at Christmas tide.

The summer beams may shine
On the rich and curling vine,
And the noontide rays light up
The tulip's dazzling cup                             ;
But the pearly mistletoe,
And the holly berries' glow,
And not even by the boasted rose outvied             ;
For the happy hearths beneath
The green and coral wreath
Love the garlands that are twined at Christmas tide.

Let the autumn days produce
Yellow corn and purple juice,
And Nature's feast be spread
In the fruitage ripe and red                      ;
'Tis grateful to behold
Gushing grapes, and fields of gold,
When cheeks are browned, and red lips deeper dyed ;
But give, oh! give to me,
The winter night of glee,
The mirth and plenty seen at Christmas tide.

The northern gust may howl,
The rolling storm-cloud scowl,
King Frost may make a slave
Of the river's rapid wave                       ;
The snow-drift choke the path,
Or the hail-shower spend its wrath,
But the sternest blast right bravely is defied,
While limbs and spirits bound
To the merry minstrel sound,
And social wood-fires blaze at Christmas tide.

The song, the laugh, the shout,
Shall mock the storm without                       ;
And the sparkling wine-foam rise
'Neath still more sparkling eyes                   ;
The forms that scarcely meet
Then hand to hand shall greet,
And soul pledge soul that leagues too long divide.
Mirth, friendship, love, and light,
Shall crown the winter light,
And every glad voice welcome Christmas tide.

But while joy's echo falls
In gay and plenteous halls,
Let the poor and lowly share
The warmth, the sports, the fare                  ;
For the one of humble lot
Must not shiver in his cot,
But claim a bounteous meed from wealth and pride.
Shed kingly blessings round,
Till no aching heart be found,
And then all hail to merry Christmas tide!

Glad Christmas comes, and every hearth
Makes room to give him welcome now,
E'en want will dry its tears in mirth,
And crown him with a holly bough       ;
Though tramping 'neath a winter sky,
O'er snowy paths and rimy stiles,
The housewife sets her spinning by
To bid him welcome with her smiles.

Each house is swept the day before,
And windows stuck with evergreens,
The snow is besom'd from the door,
And comfort the crowns the cottage scenes.
Gilt holly, with its thorny pricks,
And yew and box, with berries small,
These deck the unused candlesticks,
And pictures hanging by the wall.

Neighbors resume their annual cheer,
Wishing, with smiles and spirits high,
Glad Christmas and a happy year
To every morning passer-by             ;
Milkmaids their Christmas journeys go,
Accompanied with favour'd swain        ;
And children pace the crumpling snow,
To taste their granny's cake again.

The shepherd, now no more afraid,
Since custom doth the chance bestow,
Starts up to kiss the giggling maid
Beneath the branch of mistletoe
That 'neath each cottage beam is seen,
With pearl-like berries shining gay    ;
The shadow still of what hath been,
Which fashion yearly fades away.

The singing waits — a merry throng,
At early morn, with simple skill,
Yet imitate the angel's song
And chaunt their Christmas ditty still   ;
And, 'mid the storm that dies and swells
By fits, in hummings softly steals
The music of the village bells,
Ringing around their merry peals.

When this is past, a merry crew,
Bedecked in masks and ribbons gay,
The Morris Dance, their sports renew,
And act their winter evening play.
The clown turned king, for penny praise,
Storms with the actor's strut and swell,
And harlequin, a laugh to raise,
Wears his hunch-back and tinkling bell.

And oft for pence and spicy ale,
With winter nosegays pinned before,
The wassail-singer tells her tale,
And drawls her Christmas carols o'er.
While 'prentice boy, with ruddy face,
And rime-bepowdered dancing locks,
From door to door, with happy face,
Runs round to claim his "Christmas-box."

The block upon the fire is put,
To sanction custom's old desires,
And many a fagot's bands are cut
For the old farmer's Christmas fires          ;
Where loud-tongued gladness joins the throng,
And Winter meets the warmth of May,
Till, feeling soon the heat too strong,
He rubs his shins and draws away.

While snows the window-panes bedim,
The fire curls up a sunny charm,
Where, creaming o'er the pitcher's rim,
The flowering ale is set to warm.
Mirth full of joy as summer bees
Sits there its pleasures to impart,
And children, 'tween their parents' knees,
Sing scraps of carols off by heart.

And some, to view the winter weathers,
Climb up the window seat with glee,
Likening the snow to falling feathers,
In fancy's infant ecstacy              ;
Laughing, with superstitious love,
O'er visions wild that youth supplies,
Of people pulling geese above,
And keeping Christmas in the skies.

As though the homestead trees were drest,
In lieu of snow, with dancing leaves,
As though the sun-dried martin's nest,
Instead of ic'cles hung the eves          ;
The children hail the happy day —
As if the snow were April's grass,
And pleased, as 'neath the warmth of May,
Sport o'er the water froze to glass.

Thou day of happy sound and mirth,
That long with childish memory stays,
How blest around the cottage hearth,
I met thee in my younger days,
Harping, with rapture's dreaming joys,
On presents which thy coming found,
The welcome sight of little toys,
The Christmas gift of cousins round.

About the glowing hearth at night,
The harmless laugh and winter tale
Go round                             ; while parting friends delight
To toast each other o'er their ale.
The cotter oft with quiet zeal
Will, musing, o'er his bible lean    ;
While, in the dark the lovers steal,
To kiss and toy behind the screen.

Old customs! Oh! I love the sound,
However simple they may be              ;
Whate'er with time hath sanction found,
Is welcome, and is dear to me,
Pride grows above simplicity,
And spurns them from her haughty mind   ;
And soon the poet's song will be
The only refuge they can find.

When the Merry spring-time weaves
Its peeping bloom and dewy leaves                      ;
When the primrose opens its eye,
And the young moth flutters by                         ;
When the plaintive turtle-dove
Pours its notes of peace and love
And the clear sun flings its glory bright and wide —
Yet my soul will own
More joy in winter's frown,
And wake with warmer flush at Christmas tide.

The summer beams may shine
On the rich and curling vine,
And the noontide rays light up
The tulip's dazzling cup                             ;
But the pearly mistletoe,
And the holly berries glow,
And not even by the boasted rose outvied             ;
For the happy hearts beneath
The green and coral wreath
Love the garlands that are twined at Christmas tide.

Let the autumn days produce
Yellow corn and purple juice,
And Nature's feast be spread
In the fruitage ripe and red                      ;
'T is grateful to behold
Gushing grapes, and fields of gold,
When cheeks are browned, and red lips deeper dyed ;
But give, oh! give to me,
The winter night of glee,
The mirth and plenty seen at Christmas tide.

The northern gust may howl,
The rolling storm-cloud scowl,
King Frost may make a slave
Of the river's rapid wave                       ;
The snow-drift choke the path,
Or the hail-shower spend its wrath,
But the sternest blast right bravely is defied,
While limbs and spirits bound
To the merry minstrel sound,
And social wood-fires blaze at Christmas tide.

The song, the laugh, the shout,
Shall mock the storm without                       ;
And sparkling wine-foam rise
'Neath still more sparkling eyes                   ;
The forms that scarcely meet
Then hand to hand shall greet,
And soul pledge soul that leagues too long divide.
Mirth, friendship, love, and light,
Shall crown the winter night,
And every glad voice welcome Christmas tide.

But while joy's echo falls
In gay and plenteous halls,
Let the poor and lowly share
The warmth, the sports, the fare                  ;
For the one of humble lot
Must not shiver in his cot,
But claim a bounteous meed from wealth and pride.
Shed kindly blessings round,
Till no aching heart be found,
And then all hail to merry Christmas tide!

Christmas time has come again         ;
What a joy for girls and boys,
With its snow-balling and fun,
With its sleighing and its noise      ;
Santa Claus' bag is full
Of the sweeties, lovliest things      ;
Dolls like babies, beautiful,
Ball and drums, and glittering rings.

Haste and get the little stockings,
Santa Claus you know don't stay     ;
Always he flies up the chimney
Ere its light on Christmas day,
And at night sweet little eyes
Shut as tight as tight can be,
Santa Claus don't like us looking
Leaves us nothing if we see.

Oh, the candies                    ; Oh, the apples!
Peeping from the stocking top      ;
Nuts and raisins here in plenty,
Gorgeous looking lumps of rock,
Oh, the dolls with golden tresses,
And, the glorious big drum         ;
Let us fill the air with shouting,
Dear old Christmas time has come.

Every face is wreathed with gladness,
Oh, it is a sight to see
Such a set of lovely fairies
Dancing round the Christmas tree      ;
Santa Claus will leave some treasurer
For his darlings, every one           ;
Is not this a scene of pleasure
Since old Christmas time has come?

"What will you find in your stockings,
Good little girls and boys"
Horses and donkeys and trumpets,
Lots of wonderful toys!

"Dollie in lovely dresses,
Tops, and a sword and gun    ;
Rattles, and jacks in boxes,
Jolliest things for fun!"

"Play-houses, bows and arrows,
Turkeys and ducks that squeak,
Candies, and tiny tea sets,
Baa-lambs wooly and meek."

Old Santa will surely bring us
Some of these wonderful toys,
Oh Christmas he always remembers
Good little girls and boys.

A merry, merry Christmas!
To crown the closing year       ;
Peace and good-will to mortals,
And words of holy cheer!

What though the dreary landscape
Be robed in drifting snow,
If on the social hearthstone
The Christmas fire may glow?

What though the wind at evening
Blow harsh o'er land and sea,
If eager hands and joyful
Light up the Christmas Tree?

Soft falls its pleasing lustre
Upon the group around, --
On merry laughing childhood,
And age with glory crowned.

With eyes of rapture beaming,
Each little guest receives
Affection's token gleaming
From out the shining leaves.

The grand-dame greets her children,
And smiles their joy to see,
On Christmas eves of olden
So eager once was she.

With peace serene and beautiful
Her waning life shall shine,
And Christmas crowns the twelvemonths
With light and joy divine.

THE CITY had withdrawn into itself
And left at last the country to the country            ;
When between whirls of snow not come to lie
And whirls of foliage not yet laid, there drove
A stranger to our yard, who looked the city,
Yet did in country fashion in that there
He sat and waited till he drew us out
A-buttoning coats to ask him who he was.
He proved to be the city come again
To look for something it had left behind
And could not do without and keep its Christmas.
He asked if I would sell my Christmas trees            ;
My woods—the young fir balsams like a place
Where houses all are churches and have spires.
I hadn’t thought of them as Christmas Trees.
I doubt if I was tempted for a moment
To sell them off their feet to go in cars
And leave the slope behind the house all bare,
Where the sun shines now no warmer than the moon.
I’d hate to have them know it if I was.
Yet more I’d hate to hold my trees except
As others hold theirs or refuse for them,
Beyond the time of profitable growth,
The trial by market everything must come to.
I dallied so much with the thought of selling.
Then whether from mistaken courtesy
And fear of seeming short of speech, or whether
From hope of hearing good of what was mine,
I said, “There aren’t enough to be worth while.”
“I could soon tell how many they would cut,
You let me look them over.”

“You could look.
But don’t expect I’m going to let you have them.”
Pasture they spring in, some in clumps too close
That lop each other of boughs, but not a few
Quite solitary and having equal boughs
All round and round. The latter he nodded “Yes” to,
Or paused to say beneath some lovelier one,
With a buyer’s moderation, “That would do.”
I thought so too, but wasn’t there to say so.
We climbed the pasture on the south, crossed over,
And came down on the north.
He said, “A thousand.”

“A thousand Christmas trees!—at what apiece?”

He felt some need of softening that to me:
“A thousand trees would come to thirty dollars.”

Then I was certain I had never meant
To let him have them. Never show surprise!
But thirty dollars seemed so small beside
The extent of pasture I should strip, three cents
(For that was all they figured out apiece),
Three cents so small beside the dollar friends
I should be writing to within the hour
Would pay in cities for good trees like those,
Regular vestry-trees whole Sunday Schools
Could hang enough on to pick off enough.
A thousand Christmas trees I didn’t know I had!
Worth three cents more to give away than sell,
As may be shown by a simple calculation.
Too bad I couldn’t lay one in a letter.
I can’t help wishing I could send you one,
In wishing you herewith a Merry Christmas.

May the right hand of God ever hold you in keeping
Through coming and going, through waking and sleeping,
May the love of the Christ-Child your spirit be lighting
And the smile of His Mother your heart be delighting     ;
May Blessed St. Joseph be near you in sorrow,
And the high Saints of Erin be guarding your morrow,
May Peace be your treasure, and long be your living,
With joy in good measure for taking and giving.
In friendship go leor beyond bound or expressing
To your door I am sending this Christmas blessing.

Hush-a-bye, Baby, hush-a-bye Baby, hush-a-bye Baby bye!
Shimmer of day is fading away out of Your Father's sky,
But now You are all my own, little Son, safe on your Mother's breast
From the call of the world, my little One, and the cry of its wild unrest.
Hush-a-bye, Baby, hush-a-bye Baby, hush on your Mother's breast.

Hush-a-bye, Baby, hush-a-bye Baby, Simeon's word in my soul
Is cold as the hilt of a Roman sword and deep as the Jordan's roll,
But while I hold You upon my breast where shadows are drifting low
I veil my eyes from the world's unrest and the woe that You yet must know.
Hush-a-bye, Baby, hush-a-bye Baby, hush-a-bye, Baby O!

A little boy on sandalled feet
Came homeward from the village street ;
His Mother, having called Him, said
"Play-weary One 'tis time for bed."

Gravely He stood beside her chair
To chant His evening psalm and prayer,
Then, putting by His toys He went
To sleep till morning, well content.

Around Him there on wings of flame
Adoring hosts of angels came,
While warrior Michael with his sword
Kept watch beside the Living Word.

Above, through awful fields of space
The planets kept their tireless pace,
While He, their Lord, slept peacefully,
A little Child in Galilee.

Oh, Lord, as You lay so soft and white
A Babe in a manger stall,
With the big star flashing across the night
Did You know and pity us all?
Did the wee hands, soft as a rosebud curled,
With the call of their mission ache
To be out and saving a sinful world
For Your merciful Father's sake?

Did You hear the cries of the groping blind,
The woe of the leper's prayer,
Surging sorrow of all mankind
As You lay by Your Mother there?
Above the shepherds low bending down
The long, long road did You see
That led from peaceful Bethlehem town
To the summit of Calvary?

The world, grown weary of wasting strife,
Had called on the Christ to rise,
For sin had poisoned the springs of life,
And only the dead were wise                ;
But, wrapped in a dream of scornful pride,
Too high were its eyes to see
A Child, foredoomed to be crucified,
On a peasant Mother's knee.

But while the heavens with glad acclaim
Sang out the news of Your birth
A mystic whisper of comfort came
To the pitiful ones of earth,
And the thrill of a slowly turning tide
Was felt in that grey day-break
As if God the Father had sanctified
All sorrow for one Man's sake.

Oh, child of the Promise, Lord of love,
Oh, Master of time and earth,
While the angels are singing their songs above
We bring our gifts to Your birth:
Just the blind man's cry and the lame man's pace
And the leper's pitiful call -
On these over infinite fields of space
Look down, for Your know them all.

She set Her holy candle inside the window pane,
The happy time of Christmas had come to earth again           ;
She said, "O Mary mother, and Joseph good and true,
And little Child of Bethlehem, there's welcome here for You."

"I'm poor and old and lonely, but peace is on my floor,
And there is always greeting for travellers at my door  ;
And glad would be my sharing of bite and sup with Them
Who'd seek the room in Erin denied in Bethlehem.

"I have two sheets of linen, sun-dried and beautiful,
I have two fleecy blankets of snowy Irish wool,
A knitted quilt with fringes to lay upon the bed,
And a little downy pillow to fit a Baby head.

"I have two cups of china with saucers that are mates,
A jug of roses on it, and two blue china plates,
I'd take these from my dresser for Lady Mary's sake
To serve with mild and apples and floury raisin cake.

"I'd tend the Maiden Mother with eager hands of joy
And ask no fonder pleasure than gazing at her Boy       ;
Then, when my Guests were slumbering I'd say my Rosary,
Nor pray to enter Heaven for Heaven had come to me."

From Nazareth to Bethlehem it is a long, long way,
And wearily did Mary sigh for rest at close of day,
But vainly Joseph sought a place where she might lay her down
For every door was closed to them in all that busy town.

And some with kindness bade them may in pity for her case,
And some despised their poverty with coldly sneering face,
And there were Roman soldiery and rich men riding by
We knew not that to-night for them old ways were doomed to die.

And there were prelates, housed and warm, with none to whisper them
That God's own Lamb of sacrifice had come to Bethlehem                 ;
That now their records might be sealed, their ancient scrolls laid by,
The Living Word had been made Flesh, His star was in the sky.

Oh, many a mother clasped her babe to her in strange affright,
And many an easeful man awoke from restless dreams that night
When homeless by a stable wall, a new-born Baby cried
Who for their sake on Calvary would yet be crucified.

Upon the Galillean hills were folded flocks asleep --
But Oh, the little shepherd hands that sought for long-lost sheep
And oh, the little feet close-held by Mary from the cold
That follow on till all His lambs are safe within the fold.

From Nazareth to Bethlehem it was a long, long way
But peacefully at break of morn the infant Saviour lay,
And David' harp rang out through Heaven for Jesse's blossomed rod,
Now Adam's race had won to grace and man was linked with God.

I will not gather mistletoe,
Or serve beneath an oaken bough,
New visions through my spirit flow,
Another message calls me now.
The old ways are my ways no more,
Nor olden dreams my mind control,
I stand beside an opened door
Within the temple of my soul.

I saw this morn as dawn awoke
And planets fade in the sky,
The Star of which our ancients spoke
Telling the Sun of suns was nigh        ;
His step is one the stairs that climb
From age to age through dizzying space,
His hand unlocks the doors of time
That men may see their Father's face.

For all my years I've hailed His sigh
Arising daily in the east,
And felt through all my veins the wine
Of rapture as His Druid priest         ;
But, bent above my alter stone,
What was to me that orbed flame
But emblem of the mighty One
For whom His creatures seek a name?

But now the orient is athrill
With tremblings of a day to be
Whose beams will light the world's last hill,
And joy is in the heart me me,
My head is white, my feet are slow,
Soon will my days be done on earth,
But new life sets my veins aglow
For Love triumphant leaps to birth.

Why Gentlemen, doe you know what you doe? ha!
would you ha'kept me out? Christmas, old Christmas?
Christmas of London, and Captaine Christmas?
Pray you let me be brought before my
Lord Chamberlaine, i'le not be answer'd else:
'tis merrie in hall when beards wag all: I ha'seene
the time you ha'wish'd for me, for a merry Christmas,
and now you ha'me                                                            ; they would not let me
in: I must come another time! a good jeast, as if I could come more then
once a yeare                                                                 ; why, I am no dangerous person, and so I told my friends,
o'the Guard. I am old Gregorie Christmas still, and though I come out of
Popes-head-alley as good a Protestant, as any i'my Parish. The troth is,
I ha'brought a Masque here, out o'the Citie, o'my owne making, and
doe present it by a sett of my Sonnes, that come out of the Lanes of London,
good dancing boyes all: It was intended I confesse for Curryers
Hall, but because the weather has beene open, and the Livory were not
at leisure to see it till a frost came that they cannot worke. I thought it
convenient, with some little alterations, and the Groome of the Revells
hand to't, to fit it for a higher place, which I have done                   ; and though I
say it, another manner of devise then your Newyeares night. Bones
o'bread, the King! Sonne Rowland, Son Clem, be ready there in a trice        ;
quicke, Boyes.

Christmass is come and every hearth
Makes room to give him welcome now
Een want will dry its tears in mirth
And crown him wi a holly bough
Tho tramping neath a winters sky
Oer snow track paths and ryhmey stiles
The huswife sets her spining bye
And bids him welcome wi her smiles
Each house is swept the day before
And windows stuck wi evergreens
The snow is beesomd from the door
And comfort crowns the cottage scenes
Gilt holly wi its thorny pricks
And yew and box wi berrys small
These deck the unusd candlesticks
And pictures hanging by the wall

Neighbours resume their anual cheer
Wishing wi smiles and spirits high
Clad christmass and a happy year
To every morning passer bye
Milk maids their christmass journeys go
Accompanyd wi favourd swain
And childern pace the crumping snow
To taste their grannys cake again

Hung wi the ivys veining bough
The ash trees round the cottage farm
Are often stript of branches now
The cotters christmass hearth to warm
He swings and twists his hazel band
And lops them off wi sharpend hook
And oft brings ivy in his hand
To decorate the chimney nook

Old winter whipes his ides bye
And warms his fingers till he smiles
Where cottage hearths are blazing high
And labour resteth from his toils
Wi merry mirth beguiling care
Old customs keeping wi the day
Friends meet their christmass cheer to share
And pass it in a harmless way

Old customs O I love the sound
However simple they may be
What ere wi time has sanction found
Is welcome and is dear to me
Pride grows above simplicity
And spurns it from her haughty mind
And soon the poets song will be
The only refuge they can find

The shepherd now no more afraid
Since custom doth the chance bestow
Starts up to kiss the giggling maid
Beneath the branch of mizzletoe
That neath each cottage beam is seen
Wi pearl-like-berrys shining gay
The shadow still of what hath been
Which fashion yearly fades away

And singers too a merry throng
At early morn wi simple skill
Yet imitate the angels song
And chant their christmass ditty still
And mid the storm that dies and swells
By fits-in humings softly steals
The music of the village bells
Ringing round their merry peals

And when its past a merry crew
Bedeckt in masks and ribbons gay
The 'Morrice danse' their sports renew
And act their winter evening play
The clown-turnd-kings for penny praise
Storm wi the actors strut and swell
And harlequin a laugh to raise
Wears his hump back and tinkling bell

And oft for pence and spicy ale
Wi winter nosgays pind before
The wassail singer tells her tale
And drawls her christmass carrols oer
The prentice boy wi ruddy face
And ryhme bepowderd dancing locks
From door to door wi happy pace
Runs round to claim his 'christmass box'

The block behind the fire is put
To sanction customs old desires
And many a faggots bands are cut
For the old farmers christmass fires
Where loud tongd gladness joins the throng
And winter meets the warmth of may
Feeling by times the heat too strong
And rubs his shins and draws away

While snows the window panes bedim
The fire curls up a sunny charm
Where creaming oer the pitchers rim
The flowering ale is set to warm
Mirth full of joy as summer bees
Sits there its pleasures to impart
While childern tween their parents knees
Sing scraps of carrols oer by heart

And some to view the winter weathers
Climb up the window seat wi glee
Likening the snow to falling feathers
In fancys infant extacy
Laughing wi superstitious love
Oer visions wild that youth supplyes
Of people pulling geese above
And keeping christmass in the skyes

As tho the homstead trees were drest
In lieu of snow wi dancing leaves
As. tho the sundryd martins nest
Instead of ides hung the eaves
The childern hail the happy day
As if the snow was april grass
And pleasd as neath the warmth of may
Sport oer the water froze to glass

Thou day of happy sound and mirth
That long wi childish memory stays
How blest around the cottage hearth
I met thee in my boyish days
Harping wi raptures dreaming joys
On presents that thy coming found
The welcome sight of little toys
The christmass gifts of comers round

'The wooden horse wi arching head
Drawn upon wheels around the room
The gilded coach of ginger bread
And many colord sugar plumb
Gilt coverd books for pictures sought
Or storys childhood loves to tell
Wi many a urgent promise bought
To get tomorrows lesson well

And many a thing a minutes sport
Left broken on the sanded floor
When we woud leave our play and court
Our parents promises for more
Tho manhood bids such raptures dye
And throws such toys away as vain
Yet memory loves to turn her eye
And talk such pleasures oer again

Around the glowing hearth at night
The harmless laugh and winter tale
Goes round-while parting friends delight
To toast each other oer their ale
The cotter oft wi quiet zeal
Will musing oer his bible lean
While in the dark the lovers steal
To kiss and toy behind the screen

The yule cake dotted thick wi plumbs
Is on each supper table found
And cats look up for falling crumbs
Which greedy childern litter round
And huswifes sage stuffd seasond chine
Long hung in chimney nook to drye
And boiling eldern berry wine
To drink the christmass eves 'good bye'

Wake me to-night, my mother dear,
That I may hear
The Christmas Bells, so soft and clear,
To high and low glad tidings tell,
How God the Father loved us well                     ;
How God the Eternal Son
Came to undo what we had done.
How God the Paraclete,
Who in the chaste womb formed the Babe so sweet,
In power and glory came, the birth to aid and greet.

Wake me, that I the twelvemonth long
May bear the song
About with me in the world's throng               ;
That treasured joys of Christmas tide
May with mine hour of gloom abide                 ;
The Christmas Carol ring
Deep in my heart, when I would sing               ;
Each of the twelve good days
Its earnest yield of duteous love and praise,
Ensuring happy months, and hallowing common ways.

Wake me again, my mother dear,
That I may hear
The peal of the departing year.
O well I love, the step of Time
Should move to that familiar chime:
Fair fall the tones that steep
The Old Year in the dews of sleep,
The New guide softly in,
With hopes to sweet, sad memories akin!
Long may that soothing cadence ear, heart, conscience win.

Would that our scrupulous sires had dared to leave
Less scanty measure of those graceful rites
And usages, whose due return invites
A stir of mind too natural to deceive              ;
Giving the memory help when she could weave
A crown for Hope!—I dread the boasted lights
That all too often are but fiery blights,
Killing the bud o'er which in vain we grieve.
Go, seek, when Christmas snows discomfort bring,
The counter Spirit found in some gay church
Green with fresh holly, every pew a perch
In which the linnet or the thrush might sing,
Merry and loud, and safe from prying search,
Strains offered only to the genial spring.

Oh! holly branch and mistletoe.
And Christmas chimes where'er we go.
And stockings pinned up in a row!
These are thy gifts, December!

And if the year has made thee old,
And silvered all thy locks of gold,
Thy heart has never been a-cold
Or known a fading ember.

The whole world is a Christmas tree,
And stars its many candles be.
Oh! sing a carol joyfully
The year's great feast in keeping!

For once, on a December night
An angel held a candle bright.
And led three wise men by its light
To where a child was sleeping.

Winter is here - Let us welcome him on,
Remember Old Christmas is near                                 ;
And when Christmas with all his gay feasting has gone,
Why then we've the merry New Year                              ;
Here's a health to the rich who will give to the poor,
Let Plenty and Mercy ne'er part,
And though bitter winds blow through the white clouds of snow,
No Winter shall fall on the heart.

The time draws near the birth of Christ:
The moon is hid                          ; the night is still;
The Christmas bells from hill to hill
Answer each other in the mist.

Four voices of four hamlets round,
From far and near, on mead and moor,
Swell out and fail, as if a door
Were shut between me and the sound:

Each voice four changes on the wind,
That now dilate, and now decrease,
Peace and goodwill, goodwill and peace,
Peace and goodwill, to all mankind.

This year I slept and woke with pain,
I almost wish’d no more to wake,
And that my hold on life would break
Before I heard those bells again:

But they my troubled spirit rule,
For they controll’d me when a boy      ;
They bring me sorrow touch’d with joy,
The merry merry bells of Yule.

With such compelling cause to grieve
As daily vexes household peace,
And chains regret to his decease,
How dare we keep our Christmas-eve   ;

Which brings no more a welcome guest
To enrich the threshold of the night
With shower’d largess of delight
In dance and song and game and jest?

Yet go, and while the holly boughs
Entwine the cold baptismal font,
Make one wreath more for Use and Wont,
That guard the portals of the house    ;

Old sisters of a day gone by,
Gray nurses, loving nothing new       ;
Why should they miss their yearly due
Before their time? They too will die.

With trembling fingers did we weave
The holly round the Christmas hearth ;
A rainy cloud possess’d the earth,
And sadly fell our Christmas-eve.

At our old pastimes in the hall
We gambol’d, making vain pretence
Of gladness, with an awful sense
Of one mute Shadow watching all.

We paused: the winds were in the beech:
We heard them sweep the winter land     ;
And in a circle hand-in-hand
Sat silent, looking each at each.

Then echo-like our voices rang     ;
We sung, tho’ every eye was dim,
A merry song we sang with him
Last year: impetuously we sang:

We ceased: a gentler feeling crept
Upon us: surely rest is meet:
‘They rest,’ we said, ‘their sleep is sweet,’
And silence follow’d, and we wept.

Our voices took a higher range         ;
Once more we sang: ‘They do not die
Nor lose their mortal sympathy,
Nor change to us, although they change ;

‘Rapt from the fickle and the frail
With gather’d power, yet the same,
Pierces the keen seraphic flame
From orb to orb, from veil to veil.’

Rise, happy morn, rise, holy morn,
Draw forth the cheerful day from night:
O Father, touch the east, and light
The light that shone when Hope was born.

Out of the mists of childhood,
Steeped in a golden glory,
Come dreamy forms and faces,
Snatches of song and story                 ;
Whispers of sweet, still faces             ;
Rays of ethereal glimmer,
That gleam like sunny heavens,
Ne'er to grow colder or dimmer:
Now far in the distance, now shining near,
Lighting the snows of the shivering year.

Faces there are that tremble,
Bleared with a silent weeping,
Weird in a shadowy sorrow,
As if endless vigil keeping.
Faces of dazzling brightness,
With childlike radiance lighted,
Flashing with many a beauty,
Nor care nor time had blighted.
But o'er them all there's a glamour thrown.
Bright with the dreamy distance alone.

Aglow in the Christmas halo,
Shining with heavenly lustre,
These are the fairy faces
That round the hearthstone cluster.
These the deep, tender records,
Sacred in all their meetness,
That, wakening purest fancies,
Soften us with their sweetness             ;
As, gathered where flickering fagots burn,
We welcome the holy season's return.

The feast was prepared, and the friends were assembled,
All friends, there was only one stranger-guest there    ;
'Mid branches and holly the lights flash'd and trembled ;
And all there were happy, and many were fair.

The children stole forth, while the feast they were bringing,
Then softly returning, a fair minstrel band
At the door of the chamber with sweet voices singing,
A carol for Christmas, they stood hand in hand:—

"Ye who with gladness your Christmas are keeping,
Think of the woes which the wretched endure       ;
Many with cold and with hunger are weeping—
Christians to-day should remember the poor.

"With them in the world cold and hunger and weeping—
To-day came the Saviour for you to endure—
With them to-day Christ his Christmas is keeping       ;
You give unto Him when you give to the poor."

The children then held forth their hands, and with pleasure
Their parents and friends gave them gifts at the door,
The stranger, too, begged he might swell the rich treasure,
And the sweet singers added their own little store.

Then they join'd in the feast, and in song, and in laughter,
Their joy before God came up earnest and pure,
Because for His sake who shall judge us hereafter            ;
There was feasting that night in some homes of the poor.

It was the calm and silent night!
Seven hundred years and fifty-three
Had Rome been growing up to might,
And now was queen of land and sea.
No sound was heard of clashing wars,
Peace brooded o'er the hushed domain  ;
Apollo, Pallas, Jove, and Mars
Held undisturbed their ancient reign,
In the solemn midnight
Centuries ago.

'Twas in the calm and silent night!
The senator of haughty Rome
Impatient urged his chariot's flight,
From lonely revel rolling home.
Triumphal arches, gleaming, swell
His breast with thoughts of boundless sway ;
What recked the Roman what befell
A paltry province far away
In the solemn midnight
Centuries ago?

Within that province far away
Went plodding home a weary boor         ;
A streak of light before him lay,
Fallen through a half-shut stable-door,
Across his path. He passed              ; for naught
Told what was going on within.
How keen the stars! his only thought    ;
The air how calm, and cold, and thin!
In the solemn midnight
Centuries ago.

O strange indifference! Low and high
Drowsed over common joys and cares       ;
The earth was still, but knew not why    ;
The world was listening unawares.
How calm a moment may precede
One that shall thrill the world forever!
To that still moment none would heed,
Man's doom was linked, no more to sever,
In the solemn midnight
Centuries ago.

It is the calm and solemn night!
A thousand bells ring out and throw
Their joyous peals abroad, and smite
The darkness, charmed, and holy now!
The night that erst no name had worn,
To it a happy name is given              ;
For in that stable lay, new-born,
The peaceful Prince of earth and heaven,
In the solemn midnight
Centuries ago.

From Heaven above to earth I come
To bear good news to every home   ;
Glad tidings of great joy I bring
Whereof I now will say and sing:

To you this night is born a child
Of Mary, chosen mother mild         ;
This little child, of lowly birth,
Shall be the joy of all your earth.

'Tis Christ our God who far on high
Hath heard your sad and bitter cry   ;
Himself will your Salvation be,
Himself from sin will make you free.

He brings those blessings, long ago
Prepared by God for all below       ;
Henceforth His kingdom open stands
To you, as to the angel bands.

These are the tokens ye shall mark,
The swaddling clothes and manger dark     ;
There shall ye find the young child laid,
By whom the heavens and earth were made.

Now let us all with gladsome cheer
Follow the shepherds, and draw near
To see this wondrous gift of God
Who hath His only Son bestowed.

Give heed, my heart, lift up thine eyes!
Who is it in yon manger lies?
Who is this child so young and fair?
The blessed Christ-child lieth there.

Welcome to earth, Thou noble guest,
Through whom e'en wicked men are blest!
Thou com'st to share our misery,
What can we render, Lord, to Thee!

Ah, Lord, who hast created all,
How hast Thou made Thee weak and small,
That Thou must choose Thy infant bed
Where ass and ox but lately fed!

Were earth a thousand times as fair,
Beset with gold and jewels rare,
She yet were far too poor to be
A narrow cradle, Lord, for Thee.

For velvets soft and silken stuff
Thou hast but hay and straw so rough,
Whereon Thou King, so rich and great,
As 'twere Thy heaven, art throned in state.

Thus hath it pleased Thee to make plain
The truth to us poor fools and vain,
That this world's honour, wealth and might
Are nought and worthless in Thy sight.

Ah! dearest Jesus, Holy Child,
Make Thee a bed, soft, undefiled,
Within my heart, that it may be
A quiet chamber kept for Thee.

My heart for very joy doth leap,
My lips no more can silence keep     ;
I too must sing with joyful tongue
That sweetest ancient cradle-song—

Glory to God in highest Heaven,
Who unto man His Son hath given!
While angels sing with pious mirth
A glad New Year to all the earth.

There was a gentle hostler
(And blessed be his name!)
He opened up the stable
The night Our Lady came.
Our Lady and St. Joseph,
He gave them food and bed,
And Jesus Christ has given him
A glory round his head.

So let the gate swing open
However poor the yard,
Lest weary People visit you
And find their Passage barred.
Unlatch the door at midnight
And let your lantern's glow
Shine out to guide the traveler's feet
To you across the snow.

There was a courteous hostler
(He is in Heaven to-night)
He held Our Lady's bridle
And helped her to alight.
He spread clean straw before her
Whereon she might lie down,
And Jesus Christ has given him
An everlasting crown.

Unlock the door this evening
And let your gate swing wide,
Let all who ask for shelter
Come speedily inside.
What if your yard be narrow?
What if your house be small?
There is a Guest is coming
Will glorify it all.

There was a joyous hostler
Who knelt on Christmas morn
Beside the radiant manger
Wherein his Lord was born.
His heart was full of laughter,
His soul was full of bliss
When Jesus, on His Mother's lap,
Gave him His hand to kiss.

Unbar your heart this evening
And keep no stranger out,
Take from your soul's great portal
The barrier of doubt.
To humble folk and weary
Give hearty welcoming,
Your breast shall be to-morrow
The cradle of a King.

A gentleman, or old or young!
(Bear kindly with my humble lays)  ;
The sacred chorus first was sung
Upon the first of Christmas days   ;
The shepherds heard it overhead --
The joyful angels raised it then:
Glory to Heaven on high, it said,
And peace on earth to gentle men.

My song, save this, is little worth       ;
I lay the weary pen aside,
And wish you health, and love, and mirth,
As fits the solemn Christmas-tide.
As fits the holy Christmas birth,
Be this, good friends our carol still,
Be peace on earth, be peace on earth
To men of gentle will.

Round about the casement
Wail the winds of winter        ;
Shaken from the frozen eaves
Many an icy splinter.
On the hillside, in the hollow,
Weaving wreaths of snow:
Now in gusts of solemn music
Lost in murmurs low             ;
Howling now across the wold
In its shroudlike vastness,
Like the wolves about a fold
In some Alpine fastness,
Hungered by the cold.

(THE MOTHER SINGS.)

Babe of mine--babe of mine,
Must I lose you?
Dare I weep if the Divine
Will should choose you?--
Ah, to mourn, as I have smiled,
At the thought of you, my child!
Ah, my child--my child!

Babe of mine--you entwine
With existence!
If one strips the clinging vine
There's resistance--
Shall not I then----? I talk wild,
Seeing Death so near my child:--
Ah, my child--my child!

Babe of mine--heart's best wine--
Life's pure essence!
Gloomy shadows, that define
Death's near presence.
Dim those dear eyes, undefiled
As God's violets--ah, my child:
Ah, my child--my child!

The imperial purple of the night
Is spread, wine-dark, above,
But glistens with no gems of light,
To hint of Heaven's love.
A sombre pall hangs overhead,
Fringed with lurid clouds of lead,--
O'er the sleeping earth below
One long, wide waste of silent snow,
And the wind moans drearily
As it wanders by,
And the night wanes wearily
In the starlight sky.

(THE MOTHER SINGS.)

Must the dear eyes close?
Must the lips be still?--
How I love their speech that flows
Like a wanton rill!
Must those cheeks, soft-tinged with rose,
Pallid grow and chill?
Give her back to me, angel in disguise!
So your mystery I shall learn--yet with tearless eyes.
By the pangs, the prayers,
By the mother's glee,
By her hopes, her fears, her cares,
Give my child to me--
Give it back to me!

Quenched the eye's soft light,
Hushed the cowslip breath!
Going, darling, in the night?
Spare--oh, spare her, Death!
Dying--is it so?
Oh, it must not be!
Can my one poor treasure go?
Give her back to me,
Give her back to me:
Or take me too,--left alone,
Now my little one is gone      ;
Ah, my child, my child!

Among the clouds that sail o'erhead
A yellow radiance is shed                 ;
And o'er the hill-tops wrapt in snow,
Is born a tinge of rosy glow.
Within the air a stir--like wings
Of angels in their minist'rings           ;
A tremulous motion, and a thrill,
As with faint light the heavens fill.
Night's sombre clouds are slow withdrawn,
And nature cries, Awake, 'tis dawn.

About the lonely casement
Blows fresh the breath of day ;--
The mother, in amazement,
Sees death-glooms fade away!

The blue eyes open once again,
Once more the lips have smiled--
Her tears fell like the spring-time rain:
God gives her back her child!

Hush, there are footsteps on the snow,
That pause the lattice-pane below      ;
While voices chant the carol-rhymes,
The Christmas song of olden times:

Awake, good Christians! Long ago
The shepherds waked at night,
And saw the heavens with glory glow,
And angels in the light.
Hosanna! sing, Hosanna! sing,
Hosanna in the height!

New life they told to all on earth,
New life and blessing bright,
Forewarning of the Saviour's birth,
In Bethlehem this night.
Hosanna! sing, Hosanna! sing,
Hosanna in the height!

New life to all,--new life to all,--
The tidings good recite!
New life to all, which did befall
At Bethlehem this night.
Hosanna! sing, Hosanna! sing,
Hosanna in the height!

The voices hushed--the footsteps died
In distance far aloof,
It seemed a blessing did abide
Upon that silent roof,
As far away their cheery singing
Upon the frosty air came ringing.

Among the clouds that sail o'erhead
A yellow glory is outspread              ;
And on the hill-tops crowned with snows,
A rosy blushing radiance grows,
As wider still the warm light glows:
And flooding daylight falls again
From cloud to hill--from hill to plain.

A golden sea of swimming light
Poured o'er the sombre shores of night,
While the glad mother, to her breast
Her child yet close and closer pressed,
Her rescued treasure--newly born--
Her babe--given back on Christmas morn.

With merry glee and solace
This second day of Christmas
Now comes in bravely to my master's house,
Where plenty of good cheer I see,
With that which most contenteth me,
As brawn and bacon, powdered beef, and souse.

For the love of Stephen,
That blessed saint of heaven,
Which stoned was for Jesus Christ his sake,
Let us all, both more and less,
Cast away all heaviness,
And in a sober manner merry make.

He was a man beloved,
And his faith approved
By suffering death on this holy day,
Where he with gentle patience
And a constant sufferance,
Hath taught us all to heaven the ready way.

So let our mirth be civil,
That not one thought of evil
May take possession of our hearts at all,
So shall we love and favor get
Of them that kindly thus do set
Their bounties here so freely in this hall.

Of delicates so dainty,
I see now here is plenty
Upon this table ready here prepared       ;
Then let us now give thanks to those
That all things friendly thus bestows,
Esteeming not this world that is so hard.

For of the same my master
Hath made me here a taster                ;
The Lord above requite him for the same!
And so to all within this house
I will drink a full carouse,
With leave of my good master and my dame.

And the Lord be praised
My stomach is well eased,
My bones at quiet may go take their rest ;
Good fortune surely follow me
To bring me thus so luckily
To eat and drink so freely of the best.

"God bless us every one!" prayed Tiny Tim,
Crippled, and dwarfed of body, yet so tall
Of soul, we tiptoe earth to look on him,
High towering over all.

He loved the loveless world, nor dreamed, indeed,
That it, at best, could give to him, the while,
But pitying glances, when his only need
Was but a cheery smile.

And thus he prayed, "God bless us every one!"
Enfolding all the creeds within the span
Of his child-heart                            ; and so, despising none,
Was nearer saint than man.

I like to fancy God, in Paradise,
Lifting a finger o'er the rhythmic swing
Of chiming harp and song, with eager eyes
Turned earthward, listening—

The Anthem stilled—the angels leaning there
Above the golden walls—the morning sun
Of Christmas bursting flower-like with the prayer,
"God bless us Every One!"

Good-night, good-night, the day is done ;
Rock, rock the cradle, little one       ;
The lamp is low, and low the sun,
Good-night!

Good-night, good-night, the Christmas bough
Bends to the rocking wind, and thou
To mother's ditty noddest now,
Good-night!

Good-night, good-night, the holy day
Bring baby sweets, and sweets alway!
Rock, rock--then, tiptoe, steal away,
Good-night!

How happy were those days so old,
When feasting did all twelve days hold     ;
When tables groaned with boiled and roast,
And key of buttery door was lost           ;
When cooks had hardly time to eat,
For serving up of others' meat             ;
When the old hall with gambols rung,
And merry carols they were sung            ;
While many tales and jests were saying     ;
Some were at Whisk and Cross Ruff playing,
Primevo, Gleek, Piquet, All Fours,
In harmless mirth they spent the hours     ;
Knaves out of Town who may not hurt ye,
And tom-fool's game called One and Thirty,
Winning and Losing, Loudum, Put,
Then Post and Pair, and next New Cut.1
Some were a shoeing the wild mare,
With other tricks that used were.
But those things now are laid aside,
The better to maintain our pride,
And Christmas scarcely should we know,
Did not the almanacks it show.

Oh! what's the matter? what's the matter?
What is't that ails young Harry Gill?
That evermore his teeth they chatter,
Chatter, chatter, chatter still.
Of waistcoats Harry has no lack,
Good duffle grey, and flannel fine        ;
He has a blanket on his back,
And coats enough to smother nine.

In March, December, and in July,
'Tis all the same with Harry Gill        ;
The neighbours tell, and tell you truly,
His teeth they chatter, chatter still.
At night, at morning, and at noon,
'Tis all the same with Harry Gill        ;
Beneath the sun, beneath the moon,
His teeth they chatter, chatter still.

Young Harry was a lusty drover,
And who so stout of limb as he?
His cheeks were red as ruddy clover,
His voice was like the voice of three.
Auld Goody Blake was old and poor,
Ill fed she was, and thinly clad       ;
And any man who pass'd her door,
Might see how poor a hut she had.

All day she spun in her poor dwelling,
And then her three hours' work at night!
Alas! 'twas hardly worth the telling,
It would not pay for candle-light.
-This woman dwelt in Dorsetshire,
Her hut was on a cold hill-side,
And in that country coals are dear,
For they come far by wind and tide.

By the same fire to boil their pottage,
Two poor old dames as I have known,
Will often live in one small cottage,
But she, poor woman, dwelt alone.
'Twas well enough when summer came,
The long, warm, lightsome summer-day,
Then at her door the _canty_ dame
Would sit, as any linnet gay.

But when the ice our streams did fetter,
Oh! then how her old bones would shake!
You would have said, if you had met her,
'Twas a hard time for Goody Blake.
Her evenings then were dull and dead     ;
Sad case it was, as you may think,
For very cold to go to bed,
And then for cold not sleep a wink.

Oh joy for her! whene'er in winter
The winds at night had made a rout,
And scatter'd many a lusty splinter,
And many a rotten bough about.
Yet never had she, well or sick,
As every man who knew her says,
A pile before hand, wood or stick,
Enough to warm her for three days.

Now when the frost was past enduring,
And made her poor old bones to ache,
Could any thing be more alluring,
Than an old hedge to Goody Blake?
And now and then, it must be said,
When her old bones were cold and chill,
She left her fire, or left her bed,
To seek the hedge of Harry Gill.

Now Harry he had long suspected
This trespass of old Goody Blake,
And vow'd that she should be detected,
And he on her would vengeance take.
And oft from his warm fire he'd go,
And to the fields his road would take,
And there, at night, in frost and snow,
He watch'd to seize old Goody Blake.

And once, behind a rick of barley,
Thus looking out did Harry stand       ;
The moon was full and shining clearly,
And crisp with frost the stubble land.
--He hears a noise--he's all awake--
Again?--on tip-toe down the hill
He softly creeps--'Tis Goody Blake,
She's at the hedge of Harry Gill.

Right glad was he when he beheld her ;
Stick after stick did Goody pull,
He stood behind a bush of elder,
Till she had filled her apron full.
When with her load she turned about,
The bye-road back again to take,
He started forward with a shout,
And sprang upon poor Goody Blake.

And fiercely by the arm he took her,
And by the arm he held her fast,
And fiercely by the arm he shook her,
And cried, "I've caught you then at last!"
Then Goody, who had nothing said,
Her bundle from her lap let fall           ;
And kneeling on the sticks, she pray'd
To God that is the judge of all.

She pray'd, her wither'd hand uprearing,
While Harry held her by the arm--
"God! who art never out of hearing,
O may he never more be warm!"
The cold, cold moon above her head,
Thus on her knees did Goody pray,
Young Harry heard what she had said      ;
And icy-cold he turned away.

He went complaining all the morrow
That he was cold and very chill:
His face was gloom, his heart was sorrow,
Alas! that day for Harry Gill!
That day he wore a riding-coat,
But not a whit the warmer he:
Another was on Thursday brought,
And ere the Sabbath he had three.

'Twas all in vain, a useless matter,
And blankets were about him pinn'd         ;
Yet still his jaws and teeth they clatter,
Like a loose casement in the wind.
And Harry's flesh it fell away             ;
And all who see him say 'tis plain,
That, live as long as live he may,
He never will be warm again.

No word to any man he utters,
A-bed or up, to young or old           ;
But ever to himself he mutters,
"Poor Harry Gill is very cold."
A-bed or up, by night or day           ;
His teeth they chatter, chatter still.
Now think, ye farmers all, I pray,
Of Goody Blake and Harry Gill.

Hang up the baby's stocking:
Be sure you don't forget          ;
The dear little dimpled darling!
She ne'er saw Christmas yet       ;
But I've told her all about it,
And she opened her big blue eyes,
And I'm sure she understood it—
She looked so funny and wise.

Dear! what a tiny stocking!
It doesn't take much to hold
Such little pink toes as baby's
Away from the frost and cold.
But then for the baby's Christmas
It will never do at all           ;
Why, Santa wouldn't be looking
For anything half so small.

I know what will do for the baby.
I've thought of the very best plan:
I'll borrow a stocking of grandma,
The longest that ever I can              ;
And you'll hang it by mine, dear mother,
Right here in the corner, so!
And write a letter to Santa,
And fasten it on to the toe.

Write, "This is the baby's stocking
That hangs in the corner here        ;
You never have seen her, Santa,
For she only came this year          ;
But she's just the blessedest baby!
And now, before you go,
Just cram her stocking with goodies,
From the top clean down to the toe."

As I went through the tangled wood
I heard the Aspen shiver.
"What dost thou ail, sweet Aspen, say,
Why do thy leaflets quiver?"

"'Twas long ago," the Aspen sighed--
How long is past my knowing--
"When Mary Mother rode adown
This wood where I was growing.
Blest Joseph journey'd by her side,
Upon his good staff resting,
And in her arms the Heav'nly Babe,
Dove of the World, was nesting.
Fair was the mother, shining-fair,
A lily sweetly blowing               ;
The Babe was but a lily-bud,
Like to his mother showing.

The birds began, 'Thy Master comes!
Bow down, bow down before Him!'
The date, the fig, the hazel tree,
In rev'rence bent to adore Him.
I only, out of all the host
Of bird and tree and flower,--
I, haughty, would not bow my head,
Nor own my Master's power.
'Proud Aspen,' quoth the Mother-Maid,
'Thy Lord, dost thou defy Him?
When emperors worship at His shrine,
Wilt courtesy deny Him?'
I heard her voice                     ; my heart was rent,
My boughs began to shiver,
And age on age, in punishment,
My sorrowing leaflets quiver."

Still in the dark and tangled wood,
Still doth the Aspen quiver.
The haughty tree doth bear a curse,
Her leaflets aye must shiver.

He came all so still
Where His mother was,
As dew in April
That falleth on the grass.

He came all so still
Where His mother lay,
As dew in April
That falleth on the spray.

He came all so still
To His mother's bower,
As dew in April
That falleth on the flower.

Mother and maiden
Was never none but she!
Well might such a lady
God's mother be.

Heap on more wood!-the wind is chill         ;
But let it whistle as it will,
We’ll keep our Christmas merry still.
Each age has deem’d the new-born year
The fittest time for festal cheer: 5
Even, heathen yet, the savage Dane
At Iol more deep the mead did drain          ;
High on the beach his galleys drew,
And feasted all his pirate crew              ;
Then in his low and pine-built hall, 10
Where shields and axes deck’d the wall,
They gorged upon the half-dress’d steer    ;
Caroused in seas of sable beer               ;
While round, in brutal jest, were thrown
The half-gnaw’d rib, and marrow-bone, 15
Or listen’d all, in grim delight,
While scalds yell’d out the joys of fight.
Then forth, in frenzy, would they hie,
While wildly-loose their red locks fly,
And dancing round the blazing pile, 20
They make such barbarous mirth the while,
As best might to the mind recall
The boisterous joys of Odin’s hall.

And well our Christian sires of old
Loved when the year its course had roll’d, 25
And brought blithe Christmas back again,
With all his hospitable train.
Domestic and religious rite
Gave honour to the holy night                   ;
On Christmas eve the bells were rung            ; 30
On Christmas eve the mass was sung:
That only night in all the year,
Saw the stoled priest the chalice rear.
The damsel donn’d her kirtle sheen            ;
The hall was dress’d with holly green         ; 35
Forth to the wood did merry-men go,
To gather in the mistletoe.
Then open’d wide the Baron’s hall
To vassal, tenant, serf, and all                ;
Power laid his rod of rule aside, 40
And Ceremony doff’d his pride.
The heir, with roses in his shoes,
That night might village partner choose         ;
The Lord, underogating, share
The vulgar game of ‘post and pair.’ 45
All hail’d, with uncontroll’d delight,
And general voice, the happy night,
That to the cottage, as the crown,
Brought tidings of salvation down.

The fire, with well-dried logs supplied, 50
Went roaring up the chimney wide:
The huge hall-table’s oaken face,
Scrubb’d till it shone, the day to grace,
Bore then upon its massive board
No mark to part the squire and lord. 55
Then was brought in the lusty brawn,
By old blue-coated serving-man                   ;
Then the grim boar’s head frown’d on high,
Crested with bays and rosemary.
Well can the green-garb’d ranger tell, 60
How, when, and where, the monster fell           ;
What dogs before his death he tore,
And all the baiting of the boar.
The wassel round, in good brown bowls,
Garnish’d with ribbons, blithely trowls. 65
There the huge sirloin reek’d                  ; hard by
Plum-porridge stood, and Christmas pie:
Nor fail’d old Scotland to produce,
At such high tide, her savoury goose.
Then came the merry maskers in, 70
And carols roar’d with blithesome din          ;
If unmelodious was the song,
It was a hearty note, and strong.
Who lists may in their mumming see
Traces of ancient mystery                        ; 75
White shirts supplied the masquerade,
And smutted cheeks the visors made               ;
But, O! what maskers, richly dight,
Can boast of bosoms half so light!
England was merry England, when 80
Old Christmas brought his sports again.
‘Twas Christmas broach’d the mightiest ale   ;
‘Twas Christmas told the merriest tale         ;
A Christmas gambol oft could cheer
The poor man’s heart through half the year. 85

Still linger, in our northern clime,
Some remnants of the good old time               ;
And still, within our valleys here,
We hold the kindred title dear,
Even when, perchance, its far-fetch’d claim 90
To Southron ear sounds empty name                ;
For course of blood, our proverbs deem,
Is warmer than the mountain-stream.
And thus, my Christmas still I hold
Where my great-grandsire came of old, 95
With amber beard, and flaxen hair,
And reverend apostolic air-
The feast and holy-tide to share,
And mix sobriety with wine,
And honest mirth with thoughts divine: 100
Small thought was his, in after time
E’er to be hitch’d into a rhyme.
The simple sire could only boast,
That he was loyal to his cost                    ;
The banish’d race of kings revered, 105
And lost his land,-but kept his beard.

In these dear halls, where welcome kind
Is with fair liberty combined                  ;
Where cordial friendship gives the hand,
And flies constraint the magic wand 110
Of the fair dame that rules the land.
Little we heed the tempest drear,
While music, mirth, and social cheer,
Speed on their wings the passing year.
And Mertoun’s halls are fair e’en now, 115
When not a leaf is on the bough.
Tweed loves them well, and turns again,
As loth to leave the sweet domain,
And holds his mirror to her face,
And clips her with a close embrace:- 120
Gladly as he, we seek the dome,
And as reluctant turn us home.

How just that, at this time of glee,
My thoughts should, Heber, turn to thee!
For many a merry hour we’ve known, 125
And heard the chimes of midnight’s tone.
Cease, then, my friend! a moment cease,
And leave these classic tomes in peace!
Of Roman and of Grecian lore,
Sure mortal brain can hold no more. 130
These ancients, as Noll Bluff might say,
‘Were pretty fellows in their day        ;’
But time and tide o’er all prevail-
On Christmas eve a Christmas tale-
Of wonder and of war-‘Profane! 135
What! leave the lofty Latian strain,
Her stately prose, her verse’s charms,
To hear the clash of rusty arms:
In Fairy Land or Limbo lost,
To jostle conjurer and ghost, 140
Goblin and witch!’-Nay, Heber dear,
Before you touch my charter, hear          ;
Though Leyden aids, alas! no more,
My cause with many-languaged lore,
This may I say:-in realms of death 145
Ulysses meets Alcides’ wraith            ;
Aeneas, upon Thracia’s shore,
The ghost of murder’d Polydore           ;
For omens, we in Livy cross,
At every turn, locutus Bos. 150
As grave and duly speaks that ox,
As if he told the price of stocks          ;
Or held, in Rome republican,
The place of Common-councilman.

All nations have their omens drear, 155
Their legends wild of woe and fear.
To Cambria look-the peasant see,
Bethink him of Glendowerdy,
And shun ‘the Spirit’s Blasted Tree.’
The Highlander, whose red claymore 160
The battle turn’d on Maida’s shore,
Will, on a Friday morn, look pale,
If ask’d to tell a fairy tale:
He fears the vengeful Elfin King,
Who leaves that day his grassy ring: 165
Invisible to human ken,
He walks among the sons of men.

Did’st e’er, dear Heber, pass along
Beneath the towers of Franchemont,
Which, like an eagle’s nest in air, 170
Hang o’er the stream and hamlet fair?
Deep in their vaults, the peasants say,
A mighty treasure buried lay,
Amass’d through rapine and through wrong
By the last Lord of Franchemont. 175
The iron chest is bolted hard,
A Huntsman sits, its constant guard             ;
Around his neck his horn is hung,
His hanger in his belt is slung                 ;
Before his feet his blood-hounds lie: 180
An ‘twere not for his gloomy eye,
Whose withering glance no heart can brook,
As true a huntsman doth he look,
As bugle e’er in brake did sound,
Or ever hollow’d to a hound. 185
To chase the fiend, and win the prize,
In that same dungeon ever tries
An aged Necromantic Priest                      ;
It is an hundred years at least,
Since ‘twixt them first the strife begun, 190
And neither yet has lost nor won.
And oft the Conjurer’s words will make
The stubborn Demon groan and quake              ;
And oft the bands of iron break,
Or bursts one lock, that still amain, 195
Fast as ‘tis open’d, shuts again.
That magic strife within the tomb
May last until the day of doom,
Unless the Adept shall learn to tell
The very word that clench’d the spell, 200
When Franch’mont lock’d the treasure cell.
An hundred years are pass’d and gone,
And scarce three letters has he won.

Such general superstition may
Excuse for old Pitscottie say                 ; 205
Whose gossip history has given
My song the messenger from Heaven,
That warn’d, in Lithgow, Scotland’s King,
Nor less the infernal summoning               ;
May pass the Monk of Durham’s tale, 210
Whose Demon fought in Gothic mail             ;
May pardon plead for Fordun grave,
Who told of Gifford’s Goblin-Cave.
But why such instances to you,
Who, in an instant, can renew 215
Your treasured hoards of various lore,
And furnish twenty thousand more?
Hoards, not like theirs whose volumes rest
Like treasures in the Franch’mont chest,
While gripple owners still refuse 220
To others what they cannot use                ;
Give them the priest’s whole century,
They shall not spell you letters three        ;
Their pleasure in the books the same
The magpie takes in pilfer’d gem. 225
Thy volumes, open as thy heart,
Delight, amusement, science, art,
To every ear and eye impart                   ;
Yet who, of all who thus employ them,
Can like the owner’s self enjoy them?- 230
But, hark! I hear the distant drum!
The day of Flodden Field is come.-
Adieu, dear Heber! life and health,
And store of literary wealth.

HEAR the voice of the Bard,
Who present, past, and future, sees ;
Whose ears have heard
The Holy Word
That walk'd among the ancient trees ;

Calling the lapsèd soul,
And weeping in the evening dew  ;
That might control
The starry pole,
And fallen, fallen light renew!

'O Earth, O Earth, return!
Arise from out the dewy grass!
Night is worn,
And the morn
Rises from the slumbrous mass.

'Turn away no more                    ;
Why wilt thou turn away?
The starry floor,
The watery shore,
Is given thee till the break of day.'

LITTLE, I ween, did Mary guess,
As on her arm her baby lay,
What tides of joy would swell and beat,
Through ages long, on Christmas day.

And what if she had known it all,—
The awful splendor of his fame?
The inmost heart of all her joy
Would still, methinks, have been the same:

The joy that every mother knows
Who feels her babe against her breast:
The voyage long is overpast,
And now is calm and peace and rest.

“Art thou the Christ?” The wonder came
As easy as her infant’s breath:
But answer none. Enough for her,
That love had triumphed over death.

Gone are the summer hours,
The birds have left their bowers      ;
While the holly true retains his hue,
Nor changes like the flowers.
On his armed leaf reposes
The berries tinged like roses         ;
For he's ever seen in red or green,
While grim old Winter dozes.

Then drink to the holly berry,
With hey down, hey down derry    ;
The mistletoe we'll pledge also,
And at Christmas all be merry.

Above all cold affections,
Like pleasant recollections
The ivy grows, and a deep veil throws
O'er all Time's imperfections             ;
The mould'ring column screening,
The naked gateway greening,
While the falling shrine it doth entwine,
Like a heart that's homeward leaning.

Then drink to the holly berry,
With hey down, hey down derry    ;
The mistletoe we'll pledge also,
And at Christmas all be merry.

We read in ancient story,
How the Druids in their glory
Marched forth of old, with gooks of gold,
To forests dim and hoary                  ;
The giant oak ascended,
Then from its branches rended
The mistletoe long long ago,
By maidens fair attended.

Then drink to the holly berry,
With hey down, hey down derry    ;
The mistletoe we'll pledge also,
And at Christmas all be merry.

Each thorpe and grange surrounding,
The waits to music bounding,
Aroused the cook, that her fire might smoke
Ere the early cock was sounding.
For all the land was merry,
And rang with "Hey down derry,"
While in castle hall, and cottage small,
There glittered the holly berry.

Then drink to the holly berry,
With hey down, hey down derry    ;
The mistletoe we'll pledge also,
And at Christmas all be merry.

Blow, blow, thou winter wind,
Thou art not so unkind
As man's ingratitude          ;
Thy tooth is not so keen,
because thou art not seen,
Although thy breath be rude.

Heigh, ho! Sing heigh, ho! Unto the green holly:
Most friendship is feigning, most loving mere folly:
Then, heigh, ho! the holly!
This life is most jolly.
Freeze, freeze, thou bitter sky,
Thou dost not bite so nigh
As benefits forgot:
Though thou the waters warp,
Thy sting is not so sharp
As friend remembered not.
Heigh, no! Sing heigh, ho! unto the green holly:
Most friendship is feigning, most loving mere folly:
Then, heigh, ho! the holly!
This life is most jolly.

O reader! hast thou ever stood to see
The Holly-tree?
The eye that contemplates it well, perceives
Its glossy leaves
Order'd by an intelligence, so wise
As might confound the Atheist's sophistries.

Below a circling fence its leaves are seen,
Wrinkled and keen                               ;
No grazing cattle through their prickly round
Can reach to wound                              ;
But as they grow where nothing is to fear,
Smooth and unarm'd the pointless leaves appear.

I love to view these things with curious eyes,
And moralize:
And in this wisdom of the Holly-tree
Can emblems see,
Wherewith perchance to make a pleasant rhyme,
One which may profit in the after-time.

Thus, though abroad perchance I might appear
Harsh and austere,
To those who on my leisure would intrude
Reserv'd and rude                            ;
Gentle at home amid my friends I'd be,
Like the high leaves upon the Holly-tree.

And should my youth, as youth is apt, I know,
Some harshness show,
All vain asperities I day by day
Would wear away,
Till the smooth temper of my age should be
Like the high leaves upon the Holly-tree.

And as when all the Summer trees are seen
So bright and green,
The Holly-leaves their fadeless hues display
Less bright than they                        ;
But when the bare and wintry woods we see,
What then so cheerful as the Holly-tree?

So serious should my youth appear among
The thoughtless throng                  ;
So would I seem amid the young and gay
More grave than they                    ;
That in my age as cheerful I might be
As the green winter of the Holly-tree.

When Christ was born in Bethlehem,
Fair peace on earth to bring,
In lowly state of love He came
To be the children’s King.

And round Him, then, a holy band
Of children blest was born,
Fair guardians of His throne to stand
Attendant night and morn.

And unto them this grace was giv’n
A Savior’s name to own,
And die for Him Who out of Heav’n
Had found on earth a throne.

O blessèd babes of Bethlehem,
Who died to save our King,
Ye share the martyrs’ diadem,
And in their anthem sing!

Your lips, on earth that never spake,
Now sound th’eternal word           ;
And in the courts of love ye make
Your children’s voices heard.

Lord Jesus Christ, eternal Child,
Make Thou our childhood Thine       ;
That we with Thee the meek and mild
May share the love divine.

We sate among the stalls at Bethlehem               ;
The dumb kine from their fodder turning them,
Softened their horned faces
To almost human gazes
Toward the newly Born:
The simple shepherds from the star-lit brooks
Brought visionary looks,
As yet in their astonied hearing rung
The strange sweet angel-tongue:
The magi of the East, in sandals worn,
Knelt reverent, sweeping round,
With long pale beards, their gifts upon the ground,
The incense, myrrh, and gold
These baby hands were impotent to hold:
So let all earthlies and celestials wait
Upon thy royal state.
Sleep, sleep, my kingly One!

AS it fell out one May morning,
And upon one bright holiday,
Sweet Jesus asked of his dear mother,
If he might go to play.
‘To play, to play, sweet Jesus shall go,
And to play pray get you gone              ;
And let me hear of no complaint
At night when you come home.’
Sweet Jesus went down to yonder town,
As far as the Holy Well,
And there did see as fine children
As any tongue can tell.
He said, ‘God bless you every one,
And your bodies Christ save and see:
Little children, shall I play with you,
And you shall play with me?’
But they made answer to him, ‘No:
They were lords and ladies all             ;
And he was but a maiden’s child,
Born in an ox’s stall.’
Sweet Jesus turnéd him around,
And he neither laughed nor smiled,
But the tears came trickling from his eyes
To be but a maiden’s child.
Sweet Jesus turnéd him about,
To his mother’s dear home went he,
And said, ‘I have been in yonder town,
As far as you can see.
‘I have been down in yonder town
As far as the Holy Well,
There did I meet as fine children
As any tongue can tell.
‘I bid God bless them every one,
And their bodies Christ save and see:
Little children, shall I play with you,
And you shall play with me?
‘But they made answer to me, No:
They were lords and ladies all             ;
And I was but a maiden’s child,
Born in an ox’s stall.’—
‘Though you are but a maiden’s child,
Born in an ox’s stall,
Thou art the Christ, the King of heaven,
And the Saviour of them all.
‘Sweet Jesus, go down to yonder town
As far as the Holy Well,
And take away those sinful souls,
And dip them deep in hell.’
‘Nay, nay,’ sweet Jesus said,
‘Nay, nay, that may not be               ;
For there are too many sinful souls
Crying out for the help of me.’

How like a winter hath my absence been
From Thee, the pleasure of the fleeting year!
What freezings have I felt, what dark days seen,
What old December's bareness everywhere!

And yet this time removed was summer's time:
The teeming autumn, big with rich increase,
Bearing the wanton burden of the prime
Like widow'd wombs after their lords' decease:

Yet this abundant issue seem'd to me
But hope of orphans, and unfather'd fruit  ;
For summer and his pleasures wait on thee,
And, thou away, the very birds are mute    ;

Or if they sing, 'tis with so dull a cheer,
That leaves look pale, dreading the winter's near.

Hush! my dear, lie still and slumber,
Holy angels guard thy bed!
Heavenly blessings without number
Gently falling on thy head.

Sleep, my babe                      ; thy food and raiment,
House and home, thy friends provide ;
All without thy care or payment:
All thy wants are well supplied.

How much better thou'rt attended
Than the Son of God could be,
When from heaven He descended
And became a child like thee!

Soft and easy is thy cradle:
Coarse and hard thy Saviour lay,
When His birthplace was a stable
And His softest bed was hay.

Blessed babe! what glorious features—
Spotless fair, divinely bright!
Must He dwell with brutal creatures?
How could angels bear the sight?

Was there nothing but a manger
Cursed sinners could afford
To receive the heavenly stranger?
Did they thus affront their Lord?

Soft, my child: I did not chide thee,
Though my song might sound too hard   ;
'Tis thy mother sits beside thee,
And her arms shall be thy guard.

Yet to read the shameful story
How the Jews abused their King,
How they served the Lord of Glory,
Makes me angry while I sing.

See the kinder shepherds round Him,
Telling wonders from the sky!
Where they sought Him, there they found Him,
With His Virgin mother by.

See the lovely babe a-dressing      ;
Lovely infant, how He smiled!
When He wept, the mother's blessing
Soothed and hush'd the holy child.

Lo, He slumbers in His manger,
Where the horned oxen fed:
Peace, my darling              ; here 's no danger,
Here 's no ox a-near thy bed.

'Twas to save thee, child, from dying,
Save my dear from burning flame,
Bitter groans and endless crying,
That thy blest Redeemer came.

May'st thou live to know and fear Him,
Trust and love Him all thy days        ;
Then go dwell for ever near Him,
See His face, and sing His praise!

I could give thee thousand kisses,
Hoping what I most desire          ;
Not a mother's fondest wishes
Can to greater joys aspire.

Oh! lovely voices of the sky
Which hymned the Saviour's birth,
Are ye not singing still on high,
Ye that sang, "Peace on earth"?
To us yet speak the strains
Wherewith, in time gone by,
Ye blessed the Syrian swains,
Oh! voices of the sky!

Oh! clear and shining light, whose beams
That hour Heaven's glory shed,
Around the palms, and o'er the streams,
And on the shepherd's head.
Be near, through life and death,
As in that holiest night
Of hope, and joy, and faith—
Oh! clear and shining light!

Where is this blessed Babe
That hath made
All the world so full of joy
And expectation                          ;
That glorious boy
That crowns each nation
With a triumphant wreath of blessedness?

Where should he be but in the throng,
And among
His angel ministers, that sing
And take wing
Just as may echo to his voice,
And rejoice,
When wing and tongue and all
May so procure their happiness?

But he hath other waiters now:
A poor cow,
An ox and mule, stand and behold,
And wonder
That a stable should enfold
Him that can thunder.

O what a gracious God have we,
How good! how great! even as our misery.

Why doth the sun re-orient take
A wider range, his limits break?
Lo! Christ is born, and o'er earth's night
Shineth from more to more the light!

Too swiftly did the radiant day
Her brief course run and pass away:
She scarce her kindly torch had fired
Ere slowly fading it expired.

Now let the sky more brightly beam,
The earth take up the joyous theme:
The orb a broadening pathway gains
And with its erstwhile splendour reigns.

Sweet babe, of chastity the flower,
A virgin's blest mysterious dower!
Rise in Thy twofold nature's might:
Rise, God and man to reunite!

Though by the Father's will above
Thou wert begot, the Son of Love,
Yet in His bosom Thou didst dwell,
Of Wisdom the eternal Well         ;

Wisdom, whereby the heavens were made
And light's foundations first were laid:
Creative Word! all flows from Thee!
The Word is God eternally.

For though with process of the suns
The ordered whole harmonious runs,
Still the Artificer Divine
Leaves not the Father's inmost shrine.

The rolling wheels of Time had passed
O'er their millennial journey vast,
Before in judgment clad He came
Unto the world long steeped in shame.

The purblind souls of mortals crass
Had trusted gods of stone and brass,
To things of nought their worship paid
And senseless blocks of wood obeyed.

And thus employed, they fell below
The sway of man's perfidious foe:
Plunged in the smoky sheer abyss
They sank bereft of their true bliss.

But that sore plight of ruined man
Christ's pity could not lightly scan:
Nor let God's building nobly wrought
Ingloriously be brought to nought.

He wrapped Him in our fleshly guise,
That from the tomb He might arise,
And man released from death's grim snare
Home to His Father's bosom bear.

This is the day of Thy dear birth,
The bridal of the heaven and earth,
When the Creator breathed on Thee
The breath of pure humanity.

Ah! glorious Maid, dost thou not guess
What guerdon thy chaste soul shall bless,
How by thy ripening pangs is bought
An honour greater than all thought?

O what a load of joy untold
Thy womb inviolate doth hold!
Of thee a golden age is born,
The brightness of the earth's new morn!

Hearken! doth not the infant's wail
The universal springtide hail?
For now the world re-born lays by
Its gloomy, frost-bound apathy.

Methinks in all her rustic bowers
The earth is spread with clustering flowers:
Odours of nard and nectar sweet
E'en o'er the sands of Syrtes fleet.

All places rough and deserts wild
Have felt from far Thy coming, Child:
Rocks to Thy gentle empire bow
And verdure clothes the mountain brow.

Sweet honey from the boulder leaps:
The sere and leafless oak-bough weeps
A strange rich attar: tamarisks too
Of balsam pure distil the dew.

Blessed for ever, cradle dear,
The lowly stall, the cavern drear!
Men to this shrine, Eternal King,
With dumb brutes adoration bring.

The ox and ass in homage low1
Obedient to their Maker bow:
Bows too the unlearn'd heartless crowd
Whose minds the sensual feast doth cloud.

Though, by the faithful Spirit impelled,
Shepherds and brutes, unreasoning held,
Yea, folk that did in darkness dwell
Discern their God in His poor cell:

Yet children of the sacred race
Blindly abhor the Incarnate grace:
By philtres you might deem them lulled
Or by some bacchic phrenzy dulled.

Why headlong thus to ruin stride?
If aught of soundness in you bide,
Behold in Him the Lord divine
Of all your patriarchal line.

Mark you the dim-lit cave, the Maid,
The humble nurse, the cradle laid,
The helpless infancy forlorn:
Yet thus the Gentiles' King was born!

Ah sinner, thou shalt one day see
This Child in dreadful majesty,
See Him in glorious clouds descend,
While thou thy guilty heart shalt rend.

Vain all thy tears, when loud shall sound
The trump, when flames shall scorch the ground,
When from its hinge the cloven world
Is loosed, in horrid tumult hurled.

Then throned on high, the Judge of all
Shall mortals to their reckoning call:
To these shall grant the prize of light,
To those Gehenna's gloomy night.

Then, Israel, shalt thou learn at length
The Cross hath, as the lightning, strength:
Doomed by thy wrath, He now is Lord,
Whom Death once grasped but soon restored.

Lift up your eyes, whoe'er ye be
That fare the new-born Christ to see:
For yonder is the shining sign
Of grace perennial and divine.

What means this star, whose piercing rays 5
Outshine the sun's resplendent blaze?
'Tis token sure that God is come
In mortal flesh to make His home.

No courtier of the realms of night
Nor monthly moon's bright acolyte, 10
This star directs the course of day,
Sole sovereign of the heavenly way.

Although the Bears their track retrace,
Nor wholly their clear beams efface,
Yet ofttimes 'neath the dun cloud's haze 15
They hide themselves from mortal gaze.

But yon Star's glory hath no end,
Nor to the depths can it descend:
It ne'er is whelmed by envious cloud
That seeks its beauty to enshroud. 20

Now let the baleful comet die,
The brood of blazing Sirius fly:
God's orb shall quench their sultry heats
And drive them from their haughty seats.

Lo! from the regions of the morn 25
Wherein the radiant sun is born,
The Persian sages see on high
God's ensign shining in the sky.

Soon as its rising beams prevail
The starry hosts in order pale: 30
E'en Lucifer durst not upraise
The silvery splendours of his face.

Who is this sovereign (they enquire)
That lords it o'er the ethereal choir?
'Fore whom the heavens bow down afraid, 35
Of all the worlds of light obeyed?

Sure 'tis the sign most reverend
Of Being that doth know no end:
Of One in state sublime arrayed
Ere sky and chaos yet were made. 40

This is the King of Israel,
Of all in Gentile lands that dwell:
The King to Abram and his seed
Throughout all ages erst decreed.

To him 'twas given his progeny 45
As stars innumerous to see:
First of believers! moved to slay
His only son, so God to obey.

Behold the Flower of David shine,
Of Jesse's root the Branch benign: 50
The sceptre spread with blossoms rare
Wields o'er the world its lordship fair.

Roused by the portent of the sky
The sages fix their gaze on high,
And speed them 'neath the furrowed way 55
Marked by the star's effulgent ray.

At length its flaming steps it stayed
Poised over where the Child was laid:
Straightway with downcast mien it shed
Its splendours on the sacred Head. 60

Whereat the travellers outpour
Of Eastern gifts their treasure-store,
Myrrh and sweet-smelling frankincense,
Gold meet for regal opulence.

Behold herein the triple sign 65
Of Thy pure being, King divine:
Seeing the Father willed in Thee
To plant a threefold majesty.

The gift of gold thee King proclaims:
Thee God the fragrant incense names: 70
The myrrh declares that Death shall thrust
Within the tomb Thy body's dust.

Ah! that dark sepulchre, whose fold
God's body quenched in death doth hold:
Yet shall He from that durance wake 75
And Death's strong prison-fetters break.

O Bethlehem! no longer thou
The least of cities: all shall vow
That thou art greatest on the earth:
For thou man's King didst bring to birth. 80

Yea thou didst on thy bosom bear
The All-loving Father's only heir:
Man of the Thunderer's Spirit made
And God in human flesh arrayed.

The prophets witnessed to the bond 85
Which sealed to Him the realm profound:
The Father's Kingdom He received
And the vast legacy perceived.

All things are His in sea and sky,
In hell beneath, in heaven on high: 90
From East to setting sun, in fee
He holds the earth's immensity.

Distraught, the tyrant base doth hear
That now the King of Kings draws near
To reign in David's seat of state 95
And Israel's empire dominate.

"Betrayed are we," he maddened cries,
"Our throne's usurper doth arise:
Go, soldiers, go with sword in hand
And slay all babes within my land. 100

"Spare no male child: each nurse's robe
Your scrutinizing steel must probe:
Spare not the suckling infant, though
O'er mother's breast its life-blood flow.

"On Bethlehem our suspicion falls, 105
On every hearth within its walls:
Lest mothers with love's tender zeal
Some manly scion may conceal."

With daggers drawn the infuriate crew
Upon their murderous errand flew: 110
Each latest offspring of the womb
To bloody death they foully doom.

Ah tiny limbs! 'twas hard to know
How best to strike the fatal blow:
Too wide the sword-blades are to smite 115
Those throats so silken-fragile, slight.

O horrid sight! the tender bones
Are dashed against the jagged stones:
Sightless and mangled there they lie,
Poor babes! untimely doomed to die. 120

Perchance the still deep river laves
Their bodies thrust into the waves:
The current with their sighing sighs,
Sobs with their latest, broken cries.

Ye flowers of martyrdom, all hail! 125
Of rising morn pure blossoms frail!
By Jesu's foe were ye downcast,
Like budding roses by the blast.

Lambs of the flock too early slain,
Ye first fruits of Christ's bitter pain! 130
Close to His very altar, gay
With palms and crowns, ye now do play.

Of what avail is deed so vile?
Doth Herod gain by murderous guile?
Of all to death so foully done 135
Escapes triumphant Christ alone.

Amidst that tide of infant gore
Alone He wins the sheltering shore:
The virgin's Child survives the stroke,
When every mother's heart was broke. 140

Thus Moses 'scaped the mad decree
Of evil Pharaoh and set free
The flock of God, prefiguring so
Christ spared from fate's malignant blow.

Vain too the king's hostility 145
Who framed the pitiless decree
That Israel's mothers should not rear
To manhood's strength their offspring dear.

Quickened by love, a woman's mind
Found means to thwart that law unkind, 150
And, falsely true, the child concealed
Destined to be his people's Shield.

On him it was that God did place
The august priesthood's holy grace,
The law on stony tablets writ 155
Did to his trembling hands commit.

And may we not with prophet's eye
In such a hero Christ descry?
The proud Egyptian's might he broke
And freed his kinsmen from the yoke. 160

So we by Error's might hemmed round
Were by our Captain's strength unbound:
His foe He wounded in the fight
And saved us from Death's horrid night.

Cheering by sign of flame their feet, 165
Moses renewed with waters sweet
His folk, albeit purified
From stain, what time they crossed the tide.

And he, remote on peaceful height,
Amalek's banded hosts did smite: 170
He prayed with arms stretched out above,
Foreshadowing the Cross of Love.

Yet truer Jesus surely he,
Who after many a victory
And labours long the tribes' renown 175
With promised heritage did crown        ;

Who when the waters rose on high
And now the Jordan's bed was dry,
Set up twelve stones of memory,
Types of apostles yet to be. 180

Rightly the Wise Men said, I ween,
That they Judaea's King had seen,
Since noble deeds of other days
Prophetic chant the Saviour's praise.

Of those old rulers He is King 185
Who did to Jacob judgment bring,
King of the Mother Church divine,
God's ancient and God's present Shrine.

Of Ephraim's sons He is adored:
Manasseh's sacred house as Lord 190
Reveres Him: to His might the seed
Of brethren twelve their fealty plead.

Nay, each degenerate race hath fled
Its shameful rites and orgies dread:
Grim Baal in glowing furnace cast 195
Sinks to the earth, forsook at last.

Idols smoke-blackened, wooden-hewn,
Of brass and stone, in dust are strewn:
The chiselled deities downtrod:
For all confess in Christ their God. 200

Rejoice all peoples, Jewry, Rome,
Fair Hellas, Thrace, Aegyptus' home:
Persians and Scythian land forlorn,
Rejoice: the world's great King is born!

Behold your Chief! His praise forth tell: 205
Ye sick, ye hale, all heaven and hell:
Ay, you whose vital spark hath sped:
For lo! in Him e'en Death is dead.

Happy night and happy silence downward softly stealing
Softly stealing over land and sea,
Stars from golden censers swing a silent eager feeling
Down on Judah, down on Galilee                         ;
And all the wistful air, and earth, and sky,
Listened, listened for the gladness of a cry.

Holy, night, a sudden flash of light its way is winging:
Angels, angels, all above, around                        ;
Hark, the angel voices, hark, the angel voices singing   ;
And the sheep are lying on the ground.
Lo, all the wistful air, and earth, and sky
Listen, listen to the gladness of the cry.

Happy night at Bethlehem                                          ; soft little hands are feeling,
Feeling in the manger with the kine:
Little hands, and eyelids closed in sleep, while angels kneeling,
Mary, mother, hymn the Babe Divine.
Lo, all the wistful air, and earth, and sky,
Listen, listen to the gladness of the cry.

Wide, as if the light were music, flashes adoration:
Glory be to God, nor ever cease.
All the silence thrills, and speeds the message of salvation:
Peace on earth, good-will to men of peace.
Lo, all the wistful air, and earth, and sky,
Listen, listen to the gladness of the cry.

Holy night, thy solemn silence evermore enfoldeth
Angel songs and peace from God on high:
Holy night, thy watcher still with faithful eye beholdeth
Wings that wave, and angel glory nigh.
Lo, hushed is strife in air, and earth, and sky,
Still thy watchers hear the gladness of the cry.

Praise Him, ye who watch the night, the silent night of ages:
Praise Him, shepherds, praise the Holy Child:
Praise Him, ye who hear the light, O praise Him, all ye sages ;
Praise Him children, praise Him meek and mild.
Lo, peace on Earth, glory to God on high,
Listen, listen to the gladness of the cry.

The Hymns and Carols of Christmas
I Sing The Birth, Was Borne To Night

For Christmas Eve

Words: Ben Jonson, Underwoods (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1905), p. 6.

A Hymne On the Nativitie of my Saviour.

I sing the birth, was borne to night,
The Author both of Life, and light     ;
The Angels so did sound it.
And like the ravish'd Sheep'erds said,
Who saw the light, and were afraid,
Yet search'de, and true they found it.

The Sonne of God, th' Eternall King,
That did us all salvation bring,
And freed the soule from danger            ;
Hee whom the whole world could not take,
The Word, which heaven, and earth did make ;
Was now laid in a Manger.

The Fathers wisedome will'd it so,
The Sonnes obedience know no No,
Both wills were in one stature      ;
and as that wisedome had decreed,
The Word was now made Flesh indeed,
And took on him our Nature.

What comfort by him doe wee winne?
Who made himself the price of sinne,
To make us heirs of glory?
To see this Babe, all innocense      ;
A Martyr borne in our defence        ;
Can man forget this storie?

If Christmas day on the Sunday be,
A troublous winter ye shall see,
Mingled with waters strong          ;
Good there shall be without fable,
For the summer shall be reasonable,
With storms at times among.

Wines that year shall all be good,
The harvest shall be wet with flood,
Pestilence fall on many a country,
Ere that sickness shall have past,
And while great tempests last,
Many young people dead shall be.

Princes that year with iron shall die,
There shall be changing of many lords high,
Amongst knights great debate,
Many tidings shall come to men,
Many wives shall be weeping then,
Both of poor and great estate.

The faith shall then be hurt truly,
For divers points of heresy,
That shall then appear,
Through the tempting of the fiend   ;
And divers matters unkind
Shall bring great danger near.

Cattle shall thrive, one and the other,
Save oxen, they shall kill each other   ;
And some beasts they shall die          ;
Both fruit and corn will not be good,
Apples will be scarce for food,
And ships shall suffer on the sea.

That year on Monday, without fearing
All things well thou may'st begin,
They shall be profitable             ;
Children that on this day are born,
I'faith shall mighty be and strong,
Of wit full reasonable.

In Bethlehem, that noble place,
As by the Prophet said it was,
Of the Virgin Mary, filled with grace.
_Salvator mundi natus est._
Be we merry in this feast,
_In quo Salvator natus est._

On Christmas night an Angel told
The shepherds watching by their fold,
In Bethlehem, full nigh the wold,
"_Salvator mundi natus est._"
Be we merry in this feast,
_In quo Salvator natus est._

The shepherds were encompassed right,
About them shone a glorious light,
"Dread ye naught," said the Angel bright,
"_Salvator mundi natus est._"
Be we merry in this feast,
_In quo Salvator natus est._

"No cause have ye to be afraid,
For why? this day is Jesus laid
On Mary's lap, that gentle maid:
_Salvator mundi natus est._
Be we merry in this feast,
_In quo Salvator natus est._

"And thus in faith find him ye shall
Laid poorly in an ox's stall."
The shepherds then lauded God all,
_Quia Salvator natus est._
Be we merry in this feast,
_In quo Salvator natus est._

This is the Month, and this the happy morn
Wherein the Son of Heav'ns eternal King,
Of wedded Maid, and Virgin Mother born,
Our great redemption from above did bring      ;
For so the holy sages once did sing,
That he our deadly forfeit should release,
And with his Father work us a perpetual peace.

That glorious Form, that Light unsufferable,
And that far-beaming blaze of Majesty,
Wherewith he wont at Heav'ns high Councel-Table,
To sit the midst of Trinal Unity,
He laid aside                                      ; and here with us to be,
Forsook the Courts of everlasting Day,
And chose with us a darksome House of mortal Clay.

Say Heav'nly Muse, shall not thy sacred vein
Afford a present to the Infant God?
Hast thou no verse, no hymn, or solemn strein,
To welcome him to this his new abode,
Now while the Heav'n by the Suns team untrod,
Hath took no print of the approching light,
And all the spangled host keep watch in squadrons bright?

See how from far upon the Eastern rode
The Star-led Wisards haste with odours sweet,
O run, prevent them with thy humble ode,
And lay it lowly at his blessed feet                 ;
Have thou the honour first, thy Lord to greet,
And joyn thy voice unto the Angel Quire,
From out his secret Altar toucht with hallow'd fire.

It was the Winter wilde,
While the Heav'n-born-childe,
All meanly wrapt in the rude manger lies   ;
Nature in aw to him
Had doff't her gawdy trim,
With her great Master so to sympathize:
It was no season then for her
To wanton with the Sun her lusty Paramour.

Only with speeches fair
She woo's the gentle Air
To hide her guilty front with innocent Snow,
And on her naked shame,
Pollute with sinfull blame,
The Saintly Vail of Maiden white to throw,
Confounded, that her Makers eyes
Should look so neer upon her foul deformities.

But he her fears to cease,
Sent down the meek-eyd Peace,
She crown'd with Olive green, came softly sliding
Down through the turning sphear
His ready Harbinger,
With Turtle wing the amorous clouds dividing,
And waving wide her mirtle wand,
She strikes a universall Peace through Sea and Land.

No War, or Battails sound
Was heard the World around,
The idle spear and shield were high up hung      ;
The hooked Chariot stood
Unstain'd with hostile blood,
The Trumpet spake not to the armed throng,
And Kings sate still with awfull eye,
As if they surely knew their sovran Lord was by.

But peacefull was the night
Wherin the Prince of light
His raign of peace upon the earth began:
The Windes with wonder whist,1
Smoothly the waters kist,
Whispering new joyes the milde Ocean,
Who now hath quite forgot to rave,
While Birds of Calm sit brooding on the charmed wave.

The Stars with deep amaze
Stand fixt in stedfast gaze,
Bending one way their pretious influence,
And will not take their flight,
For all the morning light,
Or Lucifer that often warn'd them thence            ;
But in their glimmering Orbs did glow,
Untill their Lord himself bespake, and bid them go.

And though the shady gloom
Had given day her room,
The Sun himself with-held his wonted speed,
And hid his head for shame,
As his inferiour flame,
The new enlightn'd world no more should need            ;
He saw a greater Sun appear
Then his bright Throne, or burning Axletree could bear.

The Shepherds on the Lawn,
Or ere the point of dawn,
Sate simply chatting in a rustick row                ;
Full little thought they than,2
That the mighty Pan
Was kindly com to live with them below               ;
Perhaps their loves, or els their sheep,
Was all that did their silly thoughts so busie keep.

When such musick sweet
Their hearts and ears did greet,
As never was by mortall finger strook,
Divinely-warbled voice
Answering the stringed noise,
As all their souls in blisfull rapture took:
The Air such pleasure loth to lose,
With thousand echo's still prolongs each heav'nly close.

Nature that heard such sound
Beneath the hollow round
Of Cynthia's seat, the Airy region thrilling,
Now was almost won
To think her part was don,
And that her raign had here its last fulfilling   ;
She knew such harmony alone
Could hold all Heav'n and Earth in happier union.

At last surrounds their sight
A Globe of circular light,
That with long beams the shame-fac't night array'd,
The helmed Cherubim
And sworded Seraphim,
Are seen in glittering ranks with wings displaid,
Harping in loud and solemn quire,
With unexpressive notes to Heav'ns new-born Heir.

Such Musick (as 'tis said)
Before was never made,
But when of old the sons of morning sung,
While the Creator Great
His constellations set,
And the well-ballanc't world on hinges hung,
And cast the dark foundations deep,
And bid the weltring waves their oozy channel keep.

Ring out ye Crystall sphears,
Once bless our human ears,
(If ye have power to touch our senses so)
And let your silver chime
Move in melodious time                         ;
And let the Base of Heav'ns deep Organ blow,
And with your ninefold harmony
Make up full consort to th' Angelike symphony.

For if such holy Song
Enwrap our fancy long,
Time will run back, and fetch the age of gold,
And speckl'd vanity
Will sicken soon and die,
And leprous sin will melt from earthly mould,
And Hell it self will pass away,
And leave her dolorous mansions to the peering day.

Yea Truth, and Justice then
Will down return to men,
Th' enameld Arras of the Rain-bow wearing,
And Mercy set between,
Thron'd in Celestiall sheen,
With radiant feet the tissued clouds down stearing,
And Heav'n as at som festivall,
Will open wide the Gates of her high Palace Hall.

But wisest Fate sayes no,
This must not yet be so,
The Babe lies yet in smiling Infancy,
That on the bitter cross
Must redeem our loss                                      ;
So both himself and us to glorifie:
Yet first to those ychain'd in sleep,
The wakefull trump of doom must thunder through the deep,

With such a horrid clang
As on mount Sinai rang
While the red fire, and smouldring clouds out brake:
The aged Earth agast
With terrour of that blast,
Shall from the surface to the center shake,
When at the worlds last session,
The dreadfull Judge in middle Air shall spread his throne.

And then at last our bliss
Full and perfect is,
But now begins                                  ; for from this happy day
Th' old Dragon under ground
In straiter limits bound,
Not half so far casts his usurped sway,
And wrath to see his Kingdom fail,
Swindges the scaly Horrour of his foulded tail.

The Oracles are dumm,
No voice or hideous humm
Runs through the arched roof in words deceiving.
Apollo from his shrine
Can no more divine,
With hollow shreik the steep of Delphos leaving.
No nightly trance, or breathed spell,
Inspire's the pale-ey'd Priest from the prophetic cell.

The lonely mountains o're,
And the resounding shore,
A voice of weeping heard, and loud lament               ;
From haunted spring, and dale
Edg'd with poplar pale,
The parting Genius is with sighing sent,
With flowre-inwov'n tresses torn
The Nimphs in twilight shade of tangled thickets mourn.

In consecrated Earth,
And on the holy Hearth,
The Lars, and Lemures moan with midnight plaint,
In Urns, and Altars round,
A drear, and dying sound
Affrights the Flamins at their service quaint      ;
And the chill Marble seems to sweat,
While each peculiar power forgoes his wonted seat.

Peor, and Baalim,
Forsake their Temples dim,
With that twise-batter'd god of Palestine,
And mooned Ashtaroth,
Heav'ns Queen and Mother both,
Now sits not girt with Tapers holy shine,
The Libyc Hammon shrinks his horn,
In vain the Tyrian Maids their wounded Thamuz mourn.

And sullen Moloch fled,
Hath left in shadows dred,
His burning Idol all of blackest hue,
In vain with Cymbals ring,
They call the grisly king,
In dismall dance about the furnace blue ;
The brutish gods of Nile as fast,
Isis and Orus, and the Dog Anubis hast.

Nor is Osiris seen
In Memphian Grove, or Green,
Trampling the unshowr'd Grasse with lowings loud:
Nor can he be at rest
Within his sacred chest,
Naught but profoundest Hell can be his shroud,
In vain with Timbrel'd Anthems dark
The sable-stoled Sorcerers bear his worshipt Ark.

He feels from Juda's Land
The dredded Infants hand,
The rayes of Bethlehem blind his dusky eyn                 ;
Nor all the gods beside,
Longer dare abide,
Not Typhon huge ending in snaky twine:
Our Babe to shew his Godhead true,
Can in his swadling bands controul the damned crew.
So when the Sun in bed,
Curtain'd with cloudy red,
Pillows his chin upon an Orient wave,
The flocking shadows pale,
Troop to th' infernall jail,
Each fetter'd Ghost slips to his severall grave,
And the yellow-skirted Fayes,
Fly after the Night-steeds, leaving their Moon-lov'd maze.
But see the Virgin blest,
Hath laid her Babe to rest.
Time is our tedious Song should here have ending,
Heav'ns youngest teemed Star,
Hath fixt her polisht Car,
Her sleeping Lord with Handmaid Lamp attending:
And all about the Courtly Stable,
Bright-harnest Angels3 sit in order serviceable.

My sweet little baby, what meanest thou to cry?
Be still, my blessed babe, though cause thou hast to mourn,
Whose blood most innocent to shed the cruel king hath sworn        ;
And lo, alas! behold what slaughter he doth make,
Shedding the blood of infants all, sweet Saviour, for thy sake.
A King, a King is born, they say, which King this king would kill:
O woe and woful heavy day when wretches have their will!
Lulla, la lulla, lulla lullaby.

Three kings this King of kings to see are come from far,
To each unknown, with offerings great, by guiding of a star ;
And shepherds heard the song, which angels bright did sing,
Giving all glory unto God for coming of this King,
Which must be made away--King Herod would him kill          ;
O woe and woful heavy day when wretches have their will?
Lulla, la lulla, lulla lullaby.

Lo, lo, my little babe, be still, lament no more                  ;
From fury thou shalt step aside, help have we still in store:
We heavenly warning have some other soil to seek                  ;
From death must fly the Lord of life, as lamb both mild and meek:
Thus must my babe obey the king that would him kill               ;
O woe and woful heavy day when wretches have their will!
Lulla, la lulla, lulla lullaby.

But thou shalt live and reign, as sibyls hath foresaid,
As all the prophets prophesy, whose mother, yet a maid
And perfect virgin pure, with her breasts shall upbreed
Both God and man that all hath made, the son of heavenly seed:
Whom caitives none can 'tray, whom tyrants none can kill:
O joy and joyful happy day when wretches want their will!
Lulla, la lulla, lulla lullaby.

Little Lamb, who made thee
Dost thou know who made thee,
Gave thee life, and bid thee feed
By the stream and o'er the mead   ;
Gave thee clothing of delight,
Softest clothing, woolly, bright  ;
Gave thee such a tender voice,
Making all the vales rejoice?
Little Lamb, who made thee?
Dost thou know who made thee?

Little Lamb, I'll tell thee  ;
Little Lamb, I'll tell thee:
He is called by thy name,
For He calls Himself a Lamb
He is meek, and He is mild,
He became a little child.
I a child, and thou a lamb,
We are called by His name.
Little Lamb, God bless thee!
Little Lamb, God bless thee!

The short cold days, and long cold nights,
The people to the fire invites.
Now happy they who furnished are,
And did, in summer-time prepare
For victuals, drink, and good hot fires,
All which this season now requires.
If geese and sheep with care were fed —
If, at the proper time of year,
You from the sheep the wool did shear —
And, if you afterwards begun,
To have it carded, have it spun,
And wove, and put upon your back,
You'll be warm dressed when others lack.
If you October beer did brew,
You have the credit of it now,
And pleasure of the drinking too.
Provide good cheer, yourselves enjoy,
And all your needless cares destroy
With harmless mirth, and best of cheer,
Good wine, or ale, or humming beer,
And merry Christmas crown the year.

Led by a star, a golden star,
The youngest star, an olden star,
Here the kings and the shepherds are,
A kneeling on the ground.
What did they come to the inn to see?
God in the Highest, and this is He,
A baby asleep on His mother’s knee
And with her kisses crowned.

Now is the earth a dreary place,
A troubled place, a weary place.
Peace has hidden her lovely face
And turned in tears away.
Yet the sun, through the war-cloud, sees
Babies asleep on their mother’s knees.
While there are love and home—and these—
There shall be Christmas Day.

The blasts of chill December sound
The farewell of the year,
And night's swift shadows gath'ring round
O'er cloud the soul with fear             ;
But rest you well, good Christian men,
Nor be of heart forlorn                   ;
December's darkness begins again
The Light of Christmas morn.

The welcome snow at Christmas-tyde
Falls shining from the skies:
On village paths and uplands wide
All holy-white it lies                   ;
It crowns with pearl the oaks and pines,
And glitters on the thorn,
And purer is the Light that shines
On gladsome Christmas morn.

'Twas when the world was waxing old,
And night on Bethlehem lay,
The shepherds saw the heavens unfold
A light beyond the day               ;
Such glory ne'er had visited
A world with sin outworn             ;
But yet more glorious Light is shed
On happy Christmas morn.

Those shepherds poor, how blest were they
The angels' song to hear!
In manger cradle as He lay,
To greet their Lord so dear!
The Lord of Heaven's eternal height
For us a Child was born:
And He, the very Light of Light,
Shone forth that Christmas morn!

Before His Infant smile afar
Were driven the hosts of hell         ;
And still in souls that childlike are
His guardian Love shall dwell:
O then rejoice, good Christian men,
Nor be of hear forlorn                ;
December's darkness bring again
The Light of Christmas morn.

Out on the endless purple hills, deep in the
clasp of somber night,
The shepherds guarded their weary ones--
guarded their flocks of cloudy white,
That like a snowdrift in silence lay,
Save one little lamb with its fleece of gray.

Out on the hillside all alone, gazing afar with
sleepless eyes,
The little gray lamb prayed soft and low, its
weary face to the starry skies:
"O moon of the heavens so fair, so bright,
Give me--oh, give me--a fleece of white!"

No answer came from the dome of blue, nor
comfort lurked in the cypress-trees         ;
But faint came a whisper borne along on the
scented wings of the passing breeze:
"Little gray lamb that prays this night,
I cannot give thee a fleece of white."

Then the little gray lamb of the sleepless eyes
prayed to the clouds for a coat of snow,
Asked of the roses, besought the woods         
but each gave answer sad and low:
"Little gray lamb that prays this night,
We cannot give thee a fleece of white."

Like a gem unlocked from a casket dark, like
an ocean pearl from its bed of blue,
Came, softly stealing the clouds between, a
wonderful star which brighter grew
Until it flamed like the sun by day
Over the place where Jesus lay.

Ere hushed were the angels' notes of praise
the joyful shepherds had quickly sped
Past rock and shadow, adown the hill, to kneel
at the Saviour's lowly bed                     ;
While, like the spirits of phantom night,
Followed their flocks--their flocks of white.

And patiently, longingly, out of the night,
apart from the others,--far apart,--
Came limping and sorrowful, all alone, the
little gray lamb of the weary heart,
Murmuring, "I must bide far away:
I am not worthy--my fleece is gray."

And the Christ Child looked upon humbled
pride, at kings bent low on the earthen floor,
But gazed beyond at the saddened heart of the
little gray lamb at the open door                 ;
And he called it up to his manger low and laid
his hand on its wrinkled face,
While the kings drew golden robes aside to
give to the weary one a place.
And the fleece of the little gray lamb was blest:
For, lo! it was whiter than all the rest!

In many cathedrals grand and dim, whose windows
glimmer with pane and lens,
Mid the odor of incense raised in prayer, hallowed
about with last amens,
The infant Saviour is pictured fair, with
kneeling Magi wise and old,
But his baby-hand rests--not on the gifts, the
myrrh, the frankincense, the gold--
But on the head, with a heavenly light,
Of the little gray lamb that was changed to white.

There hath come an host to see Thee,
Baby dear,
Bearded men with eyes of flame
And lips of fear,
For the heavens, they say, have broken
Into blinding gulfs of glory,
And the Lord, they say, hath spoken
In a little wondrous story,
Baby dear.

There have come three kings to greet Thee,
Baby dear,
Crowned with gold, and clad in purple,
They draw near.
They have brought rare silks to bind Thee,
At Thy feet, behold, they spread them,
From their thrones they sprang to find Thee,
And a blazing star hath led them,
Baby dear.

I have neither jade nor jasper,
Baby dear,
Thou art all my hope and glory,
And my fear,
Yet for all the gems that strew Thee,
And the costly gowns that fold Thee,
Yea, though all the world should woo Thee,
Thou art mine - and fast I hold Thee,
Baby dear.

NOW as at all times I can see in the mind’s eye,
In their stiff, painted clothes, the pale unsatisfied ones
Appear and disappear in the blue depth of the sky
With all their ancient faces like rain-beaten stones,
And all their helms of silver hovering side by side,
And all their eyes still fixed, hoping to find once more,
Being by Calvary’s turbulence unsatisfied,
The uncontrollable mystery on the bestial floor.

Christmas is here     ;
Winds whistle shrill,
Icy and chill,
Little care we        ;
Little we fear
Weather without,
Shelter’d about
The Mahogany Tree.

Commoner greens,
Ivy and oaks,
Poets, in jokes,
Sing, do you see:
Good fellows' shins
Here, boys, are found,
Twisting around
The Mahogany Tree.

Once on the boughs
Birds of rare plume
Sang, in its bloom       ;
Night birds are we       ;
Here we carouse,
Singing, like them,
Perch’d round the stem
Of the jolly old tree.

Here let us sport,
Boys, as we sit—
Laughter and wit
Flashing so free.
Life is but short—
When we are gone,
Let them sing on,
Round the old tree.

Evenings we knew,
Happy as this           ;
Faces we miss,
Pleasant to see.
Kind hearts and true,
Gentle and just,
Peace to your dust!
We sing round the tree.

Care, like a dun,
Lurks at the gate:
Let the dog wait    ;
Happy we ’ll be!
Drink every one     ;
Pile up the coals,
Fill the red bowls,
Round the old tree.

Drain we the cup.—
Friend, art afraid?
Spirits are laid
In the Red Sea.
Mantle it up         ;
Empty it yet         ;
Let us forget,
Round the old tree.

Sorrows, begone!
Life and its ills,
Duns and their bills,
Bid we to flee.
Come with the dawn,
Blue-devil sprite,
Leave us to-night,
Round the old tree.

Joseph, mild and noble, bent above the straw:
A pale girl, a frail girl, suffering he saw    ;
"O my Love, my Mary, my bride, I pity thee!"
"Nay, Dear," said Mary, "all is well with me!"
"Baby, my baby, O my babe," she sang.
Suddenly the golden night all with music rang.

Angels leading shepherds, shepherds leading sheep:
The silence of worship broke the mother's sleep.
All the meek and lowly of all the world were there ;
Smiling, she showed them that her Child was fair,
"Baby, my baby," kissing Him she said.
Suddenly a flaming star through the heavens sped.

Three old men and weary knelt them side by side,
The world's wealth forswearing, majesty and pride  ;
Worldly might and wisdom before the Babe bent low:
Weeping, maid Mary said, "I love Him so!"
"Baby, my baby," and the Baby slept.
Suddenly on Calvary all the olives wept.

In the rush of early morning,
When the red burns through the gray,
And the wintry world lies waiting
For the glory of the day,
Then we hear a fitful rustling
Just without upon the stair,
See two small white phantoms coming,
Catch the gleam of sunny hair.

Are they Christmas fairies stealing
Rows of little socks to fill?
Are they angels floating hither
With their message of good-will?
What sweet spell are these elves weaving,
As like larks they chirp and sing?
Are these palms of peace from heaven
That these lovely spirits bring?

Rosy feet upon the threshold,
Eager faces peeping through,
With the first red ray of sunshine,
Chanting cherubs come in view:
Mistletoe and gleaming holly,
Symbols of a blessed day,
In their chubby hands they carry,
Streaming all along the way.

Well we know them, never weary
Of this innocent surprise               ;
Waiting, watching, listening always
With full hearts and tender eyes,
While our little household angels,
White and golden in the sun,
Greet us with the sweet old welcome,—
"Merry Christmas, every one!"

'Twas the night before Christmas, he lived all alone,
In a one-bedroom house made of plaster and stone.
I had come down the chimney, with presents to give
and to see just who in this home did live.

As I looked all about, a strange sight I did see,
no tinsel, no presents, not even a tree.
No stocking by the fire, just boots filled with sand.
On the wall hung pictures of a far distant land.

With medals and badges, awards of all kind,
a sobering thought soon came to my mind.
For this house was different, unlike any I’d seen.
This was the home of a U.S. Marine.

I’d heard stories about them, I had to see more,
so I walked down the hall and pushed open the door.
And there he lay sleeping, silent, alone,
Curled up on the floor in his one-bedroom home.

He seemed so gentle, his face so serene,
Not how I pictured a U.S. Marine.
Was this the hero, of whom I’d just read?
Curled up in his poncho, a floor for his bed?

His head was clean-shaven, his weathered face tan.
I soon understood, this was more than a man.
For I realized the families that I saw that night,
owed their lives to these men, who were willing to fight.

Soon around the Nation, the children would play,
And grown-ups would celebrate on a bright Christmas day.
They all enjoyed freedom, each month and all year,
because of Marines like this one lying here.

I couldn’t help wonder how many lay alone,
on a cold Christmas Eve, in a land far from home.
Just the very thought brought a tear to my eye.
I dropped to my knees and I started to cry.

He must have awoken, for I heard a rough voice,
“Santa, don’t cry, this life is my choice
I fight for freedom, I don’t ask for more.
My life is my God, my country, my Corps.”

With that he rolled over, drifted off into sleep,
I couldn’t control it, I continued to weep.

I watched him for hours, so silent and still.
I noticed he shivered from the cold night’s chill.
So I took off my jacket, the one made of red,
and covered this Marine from his toes to his head.
Then I put on his T-shirt of scarlet and gold,
with an eagle, globe and anchor emblazoned so bold.
And although it barely fit me, I began to swell with pride,
and for one shining moment, I was Marine Corps deep inside.

I didn’t want to leave him so quiet in the night,
this guardian of honor so willing to fight.
But half asleep he rolled over, and in a voice clean and pure,
said “Carry on, Santa, it’s Christmas Day, all secure.”
One look at my watch and I knew he was right,
Merry Christmas my friend, Semper Fi and goodnight.

O you merry, merry Souls,
Christmas is a-coming,
We shall have flowing bowls,
Dancing, piping, drumming.

Delicate minced pies
To feast every virgin,
Capon and goose likewise,
Brawn and a dish of sturgeon.

Then, for your Christmas box,
Sweet plum-cakes and money,
Delicate Holland smocks,
Kisses sweet as honey.

Hey for the Christmas ball,
Where we shall be jolly
Jigging short and tall,
Kate, Dick, Ralph, and Molly.

Then to the hop we'll go
Where we'll jig and caper   ;
Maidens all-a-row           ;
Will shall pay the scraper.

Hodge shall dance with Prue,
Keeping time with kisses     ;
We'll have a jovial crew
Of sweet smirking misses.

Ye nymphs of Solyma! begin the song:
To heavenly themes sublimer strains belong.
The mossy fountains and the sylvan shades,
The dreams of Pindus and th' Aonian maids,
Delight no more--O thou my voice inspire
Who touched Isaiah's hallowed lips with fire!
Rapt into future times, the bard begun:
A Virgin shall conceive, a Virgin bear a Son!
From Jesse's root behold a branch arise,
Whose sacred flower with fragrance fills the skies:
Th' ethereal spirit o'er its leaves shall move,
And on its top descends the mystic Dove.
Ye Heavens! from high the dewy nectar pour,
And in soft silence shed the kindly shower!
The sick and weak the healing plant shall aid,
From storm a shelter, and from heat a shade.
All crimes shall cease, and ancient frauds shall fail ;
Returning Justice lift aloft her scale                ;
Peace o'er the world her olive wand extend,
And white-robed Innocence from Heaven descend.
Swift fly the years, and rise th' expected morn!
Oh spring to light, auspicious Babe, be born!
See, Nature hastes her earliest wreaths to bring,
With all the incense of the breathing spring:
See lofty Lebanon his head advance,
See nodding forests on the mountains dance:
See spicy clouds from lowly Saron rise,
And Carmel's flowery top perfumes the skies!
Hark! a glad voice the lonely desert cheers:
Prepare the way! a God, a God appears!
A God, a God! the vocal hills reply,
The rocks proclaim th' approaching Deity.
Lo, Earth receives him from the bending skies!
Sink down, ye mountains! and ye valleys, rise!
With heads declined, ye cedars, homage pay!
Be smooth, ye rocks! ye rapid floods, give way!
The Saviour comes! by ancient bards foretold:
Hear him, ye deaf! and all ye blind, behold!
He from thick films shall purge the visual ray,
And on the sightless eyeball pour the day:
'Tis he th' obstructed paths of sound shall clear
And bid new music charm th' unfolding ear:
The dumb shall sing, the lame his crutch forego,
And leap exulting like the bounding roe.
No sigh, no murmur, the wide world shall hear.
From every face he wipes off every tear.
In adamantine chains shall Death be bound.
And Hell's grim tyrant feel th' eternal wound.
As the good shepherd tends his fleecy care,
Seeks freshest pasture, and the purest air,
Explores the lost, the wandering sheep directs,
By day o'ersees them, and by night protects           ;
The tender lambs he raises in his arms,
Feeds from his hand, and in his bosom warms:
Thus shall mankind his guardian care engage,
The promised Father of the future age.
No more shall nation against nation rise,
Nor ardent warriors meet with hateful eyes,
Nor fields with gleaming steel be covered o'er,
The brazen trumpets kindle rage no more               ;
But useless lances into scythes shall bend,
And the broad falchion in a ploughshare end.
Then palaces shall rise                               
; the joyful son
Shall finish what his short-lived sire begun          ;
Their vines a shadow to their race shall yield.
And the same hand that sowed, shall reap the field.
The swain in barren deserts with surprise
Sees lilies spring, and sudden verdure rise           ;
And starts, amidst the thirsty wilds, to hear
New falls of water murmuring in his ear.
On rifted rocks, the dragon's late abodes,
The green reed trembles, and the bulrush nods.
Waste sandy valleys, once perplexed with thorn,
The spiry fir and shapely box adorn:
To leafless shrubs the flowery palms succeed,
And odorous myrtle to the noisome weed.
The lambs with wolves shall graze the verdant mead
And boys in flowery bands the tiger lead:
The steer and lion at one crib shall meet,
And harmless serpents lick the pilgrim's feet.
The smiling infant in his hand shall take
The crested basilisk and speckled snake,
Pleased, the green lustre of the scales survey,
And with their forky tongue shall innocently play.
Rise, crowned with light, imperial Salem, rise!
Exalt thy towery head, and lift thy eyes!
See a long race thy spacious courts adorn:
See future sons and daughters yet unborn,
In crowding ranks on every side arise,
Demanding life, impatient for the skies!
See barbarous nations at thy gates attend,
Walk in thy light, and in thy temple bend!
See thy bright altars thronged with prostrate kings,
And heaped with products of Sabean springs!
For thee Idumè's spicy forests blow,
And seeds of gold in Ophir's mountains glow.
See Heaven his sparkling portals wide display,
And break upon thee in a flood of day!
No more the rising Sun shall gild the morn,
Nor evening Cynthia fill her silver horn              ;
But lost, dissolved in thy superior rays,
One tide of glory, one unclouded blaze
O'erflow thy courts: the Light himself shall shine
Revealed, and God's eternal day be thine!
The seas shall waste, the skies in smoke decay,
Rocks fall to dust, and mountains melt away!
But fixed his word, his saving power remains          ;
Thy realm for ever lasts, thy own Messiah reigns!

When winter nights grow long,
And winds without blow cold,
We sit in a ring round the warm wood fire,
And listen to stories old!
And we try to look grave (as maids should be),
When the men bring in boughs of the laurel tree.
O, the laurel, the evergreen tree!
The poets have laurels, and why not we!

How pleasant, when night falls down,
And hides the wintry sun,
To see them come in to the blazing fire,
And know that their work is done                   ;
Whilst many bring in, with a laugh or rhyme,
Green branches of holly for Christmas time.
O, the holly, the bright green holly!
It tells (like a tongue) that the times are jolly!

Sometimes — (in our grave house
Observe, this happeneth not                      ;)
But at times the evergreen laurel boughs,
And the holly are all forgot                     ;
And then — what then? why, the men laugh low,
And hang up a branch of —— the mistletoe!
Oh, brave is the laurel! and brave is the holly,
But the mistletoe banisheth melancholy!
Ah, nobody knows, nor ever shall know,
What is done under the mistletoe.

Of all the nights within the year,
Oh, oh, the mistletoe!
That's the night to lovers dear,
Oh, oh, the mistletoe!
When blushing lips, that smile at folly,
As red as berries on the holly,
Kiss, and banish melancholy.
Oh, oh, the mistletoe!

Ice was glittering on the farm,
Oh, oh, the mistletoe!
Woman's heart was beating warm,
Oh, oh, the mistletoe!
And woman's eyes, when frost is near,
And chilly dropping snows appear,
Can make the sunny time of year.
Oh, oh, the mistletoe!

Roger Rood the fiddle played,
Oh, oh, the mistletoe!
Mary at his elbow stayed,
Oh, oh, the mistletoe!
And, oh! we saw by each fond look,
And how his trembling quavers shook,
Her beauty was his music book.
Oh, oh, the mistletoe!

Much he tuned and much he sung,
Oh, oh, the mistletoe!
Mary still about him hung,
Oh, oh, the mistletoe!
Till, taking courage, he advanced,
And struck a jig                   
;then how we danced,
But Mary for his partner chanced.
Oh, oh, the mistletoe!

Mary tripped with panting breath,
Oh, oh, the mistletoe!
Till the magic bough beneath,
Oh, oh, the mistletoe!
Then she feigned undone her shoe,
But the swain her mischief knew,
And seized a kiss — it might be two.
Oh, oh, the mistletoe!

Then the kissing time began,
Oh, oh, the mistletoe!
Men looked shy, and lasses fun,
Oh, oh, the mistletoe!
But honest men, whom girls believe,
Throughout the year would sigh and grieve,
Did they not kiss on Christmas-eve.
Oh, oh, the mistletoe!

Immensity, cloistered in thy dear womb,
Now leaves his well-beloved imprisonment,
There he hath made himself to his intent
Weak enough, now into our world to come              ;
But Oh, for thee, for him, hath th' inn no room?
Yet lay him in this stall, and from the Orient,
Stars, and wise men will travel to prevent
Th' effect of Herod's jealous general doom           ;
See'st thou, my Soul, with thy faith's eyes, how he
Which fills all place, yet none holds him, doth lie?
Was not his pity towards thee wondrous high,
That would have need to be pitied by thee?
Kiss him, and with him into Egypt go,
With his kind mother, who partakes thy woe.

Night is set in, the stars their lamps are raising        ;
Each dewy flower hath closed its perfumed chalice         ;
O'er the blue hills the city lights are blazing,
And the gay cressets gleam in cot and palace.
Down the green sheep tracks rest the flocks enfolden,
Round their still cotes the hinds their fires are waking,
While in the homes of Bethlehem lie holden
Eyes all unconscious of the mystery breaking.

Oh, wonder of all wonders,
The hinds their watch are keeping,
A babe is in the manger —
Christ Jesus there is sleeping     ;
The oxen round him lowing,
The ass his forehead bowing,
The maiden mother kneeling,
While night is o'er them stealing.

Soon shall a fire-blood kindle up the horizon,
Paling the night stars in their fairy shining,
Paling the broad sun at his first uprising,
Paling the bright moon at his red declining.
Hark, through the opened lattice of Heaven's portals
Soundeth -- "To God be glory in the highest,
Peace be on earth                                     
; Good will to loving mortals."
Peace to thee, Christian, while with joy thou criest.

Oh, wonder of all wonders,
The hinds their watch are keeping,
A babe is in the manger —
Christ Jesus there is sleeping     ;
The oxen round him lowing,
The ass his forehead bowing,
The maiden mother kneeling,
While night is o'er them stealing.

Deep in the shelter of the cave,
The ass with drooping head
Stood weary in the shadow, where
His master's hand had led.
About the manger oxen lay,
Bending a wide-eyed gaze
Upon the little new-born Babe,
Half worship, half amaze.
High in the roof the doves were set,
And cooed there, soft and mild,
Yet not so sweet as, in the hay,
The Mother to her Child.
The gentle cows breathed fragrant breath
To keep Babe Jesus warm,
While loud and clear, o'er hill and dale,
The cocks crowed, "Christ is born!"
Out in the fields, beneath the stars,
The young lambs sleeping lay,
And dreamed that in the manger slept
Another white as they.

These were Thy neighbors, Christmas Child ;
To Thee their love was given,
For in Thy baby face there shone
The wonder-light of Heaven.

Now Christmas comes, 'tis fit that we
Should feast and sing and merry be,
Keep open house, let fiddlers play     ;
A fig for cold, sing care away!
And may they who thereat repine,
On brown bread and on small beer dine.

Make fires with logs, let the cooks sweat
With boiling and with roasting meat       ;
Let ovens be heat for fresh supplies
Of puddings, pasties, and minced pies,
And whilst that Christmas doth abide
Let butt'ry-door stand open wide.

Hand up those churls that will not feast
Or with good fellows be a guest,
And hang up those would take away
The observation of that day              ;
O may they never minced pies eat,
Plum-pudding, roast-beef, nor such meat.

But blest be they, awake and sleep,
Who at that time [a] good house keep
May never want come nigh their door,
Who at that time relieve the poor         ;
Be plenty always in their house
Of beef, veal, lamb, pork, mutton, souse.

Now enter Christmas like a man,
Armed with spit and dripping-pan,
Attended with pasty, plum-pie,
Puddings, plum-porridge, furmity            ;
With beef, pork, mutton of each sort
More than my pen can make report            ;
Pig, swan, goose, rabbits, partridge, teal,
With legs and loins and breasts of veal:
But above all the minced pies
Must mention'd be in any wise,
Or else my Must were much to blame,
Since they from Christmas take their name.
With these, or any one of these,
A man may dine well if he please            ;
Yet this must well be understood, ―
Though one of these be singly good,
Yet more the merrier is the best
As well of dishes as of guest.
But the times are grown so bad
Scarce one dish for the poor is had         ;
Good housekeeping is laid aside,
And all is spent to maintain pride          ;
Good works are counted popish, and
Small charity is in the land.
A man may sooner (truth I tell ye)
Break his own neck than fill his belly.
Good God, amend what is amiss
And send a remedy to this,
That Christmas day again may rise
And we enjoy our Christmas pies.

Now let the angel song break forth!
For night shall never more be night      ;
A quenchless star climbs o'er the earth,
A torch lit up from God's own light.

There where the watching shepherds pressed,
Where Eastern seers bowed them low, --
From pole to pole, from east to west,
See the world's tidal pulses flow!

I saw the warrior on the plain
Pause i that light to sheathe his sword ;
I saw the slave look up in pain, --
Chains melted in the fires it poured.

Thou, God, who givest our night this star,
Whose circling arm excludeth none.
Gather our treasures from afar,
To the soul's monarch inly born.

Kindle thy blessed sign again,
For the New World a Christ's new birth,
When to our cry, Good-will to men,
The heavens shall answer, Peace on earth!

Now, Lord, in Peace with Thee and all below,
Let me depart, and to Thy Kingdom go.
As, earnestly fatigued in Journeys, I
Have wish'd to see my Town to lodge in, nigh :
So earnestly my weeping Eyes I turn
Towards Thy House                                
; and languish, pine and mourn.
Nor can I help it, for within I feel
A Thirst to see Thee, quite insatiable.
Tis true, Thy Blessings make my Cup run o'er,
I find Thy Favours daily more and more           ;
When Troubles me afflict and bow me down,
I am never forsaken or alone :
Thou kissest all my Tears and Griefs away,
Art with me all Night long, and all the Day.
I have no Doubt that I belong to Thee,
And shall be with Thee to Eternity.
For firm my Heart believes, as Thou art true     ;
I am Thy pleasant Child, Thy Son, I know.
But take it not amiss, O be not griev'd,
I want from Pilgrimage to be reliev'd            ;
I want to be dissolv'd, and no more here
A Wand'rer be, a banishd'd Foreigner.
Sign my Dismission, with a tender Sense
That Thou with my Retiring dost dispense.
I would not Thee offend, (Thou know'st my Heart)
Nor one short Day before Thy Time depart :
But I am weary, and dejected too,
O let me to Eternal Sabbath go.
In no Chastisement, Darkness, or Distress,
In no Confusion, but in inward Peace,
With Thy full Leave and Approbation, I
Entreat to lay my Staff and Sandals by.
No sudden Stroke, or violent Fever give,
Which may me of my Senses quite bereave          ;
Lest I should with my Lips offend or err,
Or grieve such tender Brethren who are near :
No, let my fleeting Soul, and my last Word
Confirm my Assurance, and exalt my Lord.
Allow me this, and sign my glad Release,
Let my Heart hear Thee say, Depart in Peace.
I long to see Thee, Son of Man, and be
A pardon'd Part of Thy dear Family.

As, oft, at Sea, when Wind and Tide was fair,
I've seen the less'ning Mountains disappear,
Exceeding sick, yet glad to move so fast,
In hopes e're long on th' other side to rest        ;
Till the glad Sailors spy their Native Shore,
And the Land-Breezes my lost Strength restore       ;
Then on the Deck how pleased have I seen
My port, and thought, (as if on Shore I'd been)
I see my Friends ! I kiss them, and partake
Their welcomes with their Arms about my Neck !
Till all is realiz'd, and on the Strand
Chearful and thankful lo ! they see me land         ;
Then I my Sickness and Fatigues forget,
And what I fancied's real and compleat :
Just so I long my Passport to receive,
And have Permission this sad World to leave.
Like some poor Wind-bound Passenger I wait,
He thirsts for Home, nor Food, nor Sleep is sweet :
So I with love-sick Anguish, Tears and Sighs,
Oft (my Heart melting) look towards the Skies.
No Words express the Throbbings of my Breast,
To fly away and ever be at rest.

If I am by, when one in Faith expires,
Or hear their happy Exit, it inspires
My eager Soul their Footsteps to pursue,
And fain that Night I'd make my Exit too.
I scarce reflect, they now are with the Lamb,
But down my Cheeks the saltry Riv'lets stream.
I long to kiss that Hand, which once me bless'd ;
Those Feet that travell'd to procure my rest    ;
Those Lips that me confess'd                    
; and that dear Head,
That bow'd when on it all my Sins were laid.

O Lamb ! I languish till that Day I see,
When Thou wilt say, Come up and be with ME.
Now Twice-seven Years have I Thy Servant been        ;
Now let me end my Service, and my Sin.
Forgive all my Mistakes, and Faults, and Shame,
Neglect, and all things where I've been to blame,
Let the same Kiss my Absolution seal,
And Pow'r convey, all what is bruis'd to heal.
Then loose the Silver Cord with gentle Pain,
Whil'st I on Thy dear Bosom smiling lean             ;
Let the Death-Sweat, and sick and fainty Chills,
(With chearing Views of the Eternal Hills)
And Limbs grown cold, and breaking Eye-strings tell,
But a few Moments, and thou shalt be well !
Thine everlasting Arms be underneath,
Thy bleeding Wounds disarm the Tyrant Death :
Thy own cold Sweat my Clam and Sweat wipe off,
Thy Cross my Bed, and Pillow then make soft.
Thy Ministers of flaming Fire attend,
And sing me sweetly to my journey's End.
Then let me hear, then bid my Friends adieu          ;
Say, to thine Honour, “Thou art good and true !
I've overcome ! I live for evermore !
My Sorrows now, and Pains and Tears are o'er.
The Angels wait – the Saviour Calls – Farewell,
I go to Him in endless Peace to dwell.”
Then let my Breath grow short, my Strength decay,
The Ruttles low and Pulses die away                  ;
So fall asleep – and soaring, stoop and view
The less'ning World now left, and all below.
Mean while shall I awake in Jesus's Arms             ;
Above the reach of Slanders, Wrongs, or Harms        ;
And with my dear Acquaintance gone before,
Stay with the Lamb, and go from Him no more.

Oh, holy night! Oh, glorious light,
That shines on Bethlehem town!
Oh, music sweet, that from the skies
Comes floating softly down!
The echo of the angels' song
Falls on our ears again:
“All glory be to God on high,
And peace, good will to men.”

The shepherds heard, like note of bird,
That midnight carol clear,
And to the manger and the babe
In awe and love drew near
And, as they gazed, the heavenly strain
Rang in their hearts again:
“All glory be to God on high,
And peace, good will to men”

'Twas service sweet, 'twas homage meet
For lowly men to pay                   ;
And we our hearts' obeisance make
Upon this Christmas day.
We join ye, angel choristers,
As ye repeat again:
“All glory be to God on high,
And peace, good will to men.”

Oh, holy night! Oh, glorious light,
That shines on Bethlehem town!
Oh, music sweet, that from the skies
Comes softly floating down!
We catch the golden cadences
And fling them back again --
“All glory be to God on high,
And peace, good will to men.”

When first the fiery mantled Sun
His heavenly race began to run,
Round the earth and ocean blue
His children four the Seasons flew:—
First, in green apparel dancing,
The young Spring smiled with angel-grace     ;
Rosy Summer next advancing,
Rush'd into her sire's embrace—
Her bright-hair'd sire, who bade her keep
For ever nearest to his smiles,
On Calpe's olive-shaded steep
Or India's citron-cover'd isles.
More remote and buxom-brown,
The Queen of vintage bow'd before his throne ;
A rich pomegranate gemm'd her crown,
A ripe sheaf bound her zone.

But howling Winter fled afar
To hills that prop the polar star                 ;
And loves on deer-borne car to ride
With barren darkness at his side
Round the shore where loud Lofoden
Whirls to death the roaring whale,
Round the hall where Runic Odin
Howls his war-song to the gale—
Save when adown the ravaged globe
He travels on his native storm,
Deflowering Nature's grassy robe
And trampling on her faded form                   ;
Till light's returning Lord assume
The shaft that drives him to his northern fields,
Of power to pierce his raven plume
And crystal-cover'd shield.

O sire of storms! whose savage ear
The Lapland drum delights to hear,
When Frenzy with her bloodshot eye
Implores thy dreadful deity—
Archangel! Power of desolation!
Fast descending as thou art,
Say, hath mortal invocation
Spells to touch thy stony heart:
Then, sullen Winter! hear my prayer,
And gently rule the ruin'd year           ;
Nor chill the wanderer's bosom bare
Nor freeze the wretch's falling tear:
To shuddering Want's unmantled bed
Thy horror-breathing agues cease to lend,
And gently on the orphan head
Of Innocence descend.

But chiefly spare, O king of clouds!
The sailor on his airy shrouds,
When wrecks and beacons strew the deep
And spectres walk along the deep.
Milder yet thy snowy breezes
Pour on yonder tented shores,
Where the Rhine's broad billow freezes,
Or the dark-brown Danube roars.
O winds of Winter! list ye there
To many a deep and dying groan?
Or start, ye demons of the midnight air,
At shrieks and thunders louder than your own?
Alas! e'en your unhallow'd breath
May spare the victim fallen low               ;
But Man will ask no truce to death,
No bounds to human woe.

The Blessed Virgin travailed without pain,
And lodged in an inn,
A glorious star the sign
But of a greater guest than ever came that way,
For there He lay
That is the God of night and day,
And over all the pow'rs of heav'n doth reign.
It was the time of great Augustus' tax,
And then He comes
That pays all sums,
Even the whole price of lost humanity            ;
And sets of free
From the ungodly emperie
Of Sin, of Satan, and of Death.
O make our hearts, blest God, Thy lodging-place,
And in our breast
Be pleased to rest,
For Thou lov'st temples better than an inn,
And cause that Sin
May not profane the Deity within,
And sully o'er the ornaments of grace.

Fair eastern star, that art ordained to run
Before the sages, to the rising sun,
Here cease thy course, and wonder that the cloud
Of this poor stable can thy Maker shroud:

Ye heavenly bodies glory to be bright
And are esteemed as ye are rich in light     ;
But here on earth is taught a different way,
Since under this low roof the Highest lay.

Jerusalem erects her stately towers,
Displays her windows and adorns her bowers:
Yet there thou must not cast a trembling spark,
Let Herod's palace still continue dark          ;

Each school and syngogue thy force repels,
There Pride enthroned in misty error dwells         ;
The temple, where the priests maintain their quire,
Shall taste no beam of thy celestial fire,

While this weak cottage all thy splendour takes:
A joyful gate of every chink it makes
Here shines no golden roof, no ivory stair,
No king exalted in a stately chair,

Girt with attendants, or by heralds styled,
But straw and hay enwrap a speechless child.
Yet Sabae's lords before this babe unfold
Their treasures, offering incense, myrrh and gold.

The crib becomes an altar: therefore dies
No ox nor sheep                                     
; for in their fodder lies
The Prince of Peace, who, thankful for his bed,
Destroys those rites in which their blood was shed:

The quintessence of earth he takes, and fees,
And precious gums distilled from weeping trees ;
Rich metals and sweet odours now declare
The glorious blessings which his laws prepare,

To clear us from the base and loathsome flood
Of sense and make us fit for angels' food,
Who life to God for us the holy smoke
Of fervent prayers with which we him invoke,

And try our actions in the searching fire
By which the seraphims our lips inspire:
No muddy dross pure minerals shall infect,
We shall exhale our vapours up direct:

No storm shall cross, nor glittering lights deface
Perpetual sighs which seek a happy place.

Once more the rapid. fleeting year
Has brought old Christmas to the door  ;
Come, let us treat him with such cheer
As folks were wont in days of yore,
When burgher grave, and belted knight,
And cottage maid, and lady fair,
Obeyed the old familiar sprite,
And, at his bidding, banished Care —
That sullen, surly, melancholy wight.

Let's hang from beams all black with time,
The mistletoe's insidious bough,
'Neath which, as ittle birds with lime,
Young girls are snared, "they know not how —
The horrid thing — they never thought
If half so near — for if they had,
'T is certain they had not been caught —
Old that rely — it was too bad,
And not at all behaving as one ought."

Upon the hearth pile up the fire,
And, that it may burn clear and bright,
Cast in it every base desire,
All envy, hatred, vengeance, spite        ;
Believe me, the event will show
By acting in this way you'll gain —
For you will feel a genial glow
Dance through each gladly-swelling vein,
And onwards to your very heart's core go.

Bring, too, the sparkling wassail bowl,
That Jolly Christmas holds so dear,
And if you'd have it warm your soul —
The mind as well as body cheer —
Amid the wine and spirit pour
The blessings from some humble roof                  ;
A little charity is sure
To call them forth: in sober truth,
They'll give the draught one matchless flavour more.

And you, fair Sovereign of this isle,
Who love to deck the Christmas tree,
So that the massy, regal pile
Resound with mirth and jollity,
Remember that the stem with new
Strength thrives, if pruned with careful hand ;
Then trim your Christmas sapling, too,
And to the poor throughout the land
Send of the shoots thus lopped away a few.

All you that to feasting and mirth are inclined,
Come, here is good news for to pleasure your mind        ;
Old Christmas is come for to keep open house,
He scorns to be guilty of starving a mouse.
Then come, boys, and welcome for diet the chief,
Plum-pudding, goose, capon, minced-pies, and roast-beef.

A long time together he hath been forgot,
They scarce could afford to hang on the pot              ;
Such miserly sneaking in England hath been,
As by our forefathers ne'er us'd to be seen              ;
But now he's returned, you shall have in brief,
Plum-pudding, goose, capon, minced-pies, and roast-beef.

The times were ne'er good since Old Christmas was fled,
And all hospitality hath been so dead                    ;
No mirth at our festivals late did appear,
They scarcely would part with a cup of March beer        ;
But now you shall have for the ease of your grief,
Plum-pudding, goose, capon, minced-pies, and roast-beef.

The butler and baker, they now may be glad,
The times they are mended, though they have been bad     ;
The brewer, he likewise may be of good cheer,
He shall have good trading for ale and strong beer       ;
All trades shall be jolly, and have for relief,
Plum-pudding, goose, capon, minced-pies, and roast-beef.

The holly and ivy about the walls wind,
And show that we ought to our neighbors be kind,
Inviting each other for pastime and sport,
And where we best fare, there we most do resort          ;
We fail not of victuals, and that of the chief,
Plum-pudding, goose, capon, minced-pies, and roast-beef.

The cooks shall be busied by day and by night,
In roasting and boiling, for taste and delight           ;
Their senses in liquor that's nappy they'll steep,
Though they be afforded to have little sleep             ;
They still are employed for to dress us in brief,
Plum-pudding, goose, capon, minced-pies, and roast-beef.

Although the cold weather doth hunger provoke,
'Tis a comfort to see how the chimneys do smoke          ;
Provision is making for beer, ale, and wine,
For all that are willing or ready to dine:
Then haste to the kitchen for diet the chief,
Plum-pudding, goose, capon, minced-pies, and roast-beef.

All travellers, as they do pass on their way,
At gentlemen's halls are invited to stay,
Themselves to refresh, and their horses to rest,
Since that he must be Old Christmas's guest              ;
Nay, the poor shall not want, but have for relief,
Plum-pudding, goose, capon, minced-pies, and roast-beef.

Now Mock-beggar-hall it no more shall stand empty,
But all shall be furnisht with freedom and plenty        ;
The hoarding old misers, who us'd to preserve
The gold in their coffers, and see the poor starve,
Must now spread their tables, and give them in brief,
Plum-pudding, goose, capon, minced-pies, and roast-beef.

The court, and the city, and country are glad,
Old Christmas is come to cheer up the sad                ;
Broad pieces and guineas about now shall fly,
And hundreds be losers by cogging a die,
Whilst others are feasting with diet the chief,
Plum-pudding, goose, capon, minced-pies, and roast-beef.

Those that have no coin at the cards for to play,
May sit by the fire and pass time away,
And drink of their moisture contented and free,
"My honest, good fellow, come, here is to thee!"
And when they are hungry, fall to their relief,
Plum-pudding, goose, capon, minced-pies, and roast-beef.

Young gallants and ladies shall foot it along,
Each room in the house to the music shall throng,
Whilst jolly carouses about they shall pass,
And each country swain trip about with his lass          ;
Meantime goes the caterer to fetch in the chief,
Plum-pudding, goose, capon, minced-pies, and roast-beef.

The cooks and the scullion, who toil in their frocks,
Their hopes do depend upon their Christmas-box           ;
There is very few that do live on the earth
But enjoy at this time either profit or mirth            ;
Yea, those that are charged to find all relief,
Plum-pudding, goose, capon, minced-pies, and roast-beef.

Then well may we welcome Old Christmas to town,
Who brings us good cheer and good liquor so brown        ;
To pass the cold winter away with delight,
We feast it all day, and we frolic all night             ;
Both hunger and cold we keep out with relief,
Plum-pudding, goose, capon, minced-pies, and roast-beef.

Then let all curmudgeons who dote on their wealth,
And value their treasure much more than their health,
Go hang themselves up, if they will be so kind           ;
Old Christmas with them but small welcome shall find     ;
They will not afford to themselves without grief,
Plum-pudding, goose, capon, minced-pies, and roast-beef.

With footstep slow, in furry pall yelad,
His brows enwreathed with holly never sere,
Old Christmas comes, to close the waned year,
And aye the shepherd's heart to make right glad   ;
Who, when his teeming flocks are homeward had,
To blazing hearth repairs, and nut-brown beer     ;
And views, well pleased, the ruddy prattlers dear
Hug the grey mongrel                              
; meanwhile, maid and lad
Squabble for roasted crabs. Thee, sire, we hail,
Whether thine aged limbs thou dost enshroud
In vest of snowy white and hoary veil,
Or wrapp'st thy visage in a sable cloud           ;
Thee we proclaim with mirth and cheer, nor fail
To greet thee well with many a carol loud.

THIS ancient silver bowl of mine, — it tells of good old times,
Of joyous days, and jolly nights, and merry Christmas chimes      ;
They were a free and jovial race, but honest, brave, and true,
That dipped their ladle in the punch when this old bowl was new.

A Spanish galleon brought the bar, — so runs the ancient tale          ;
'T was hammered by an Antwerp smith, whose arm was like a flail          ;
And now and then between the strokes, for fear his strength should fail,
He wiped his brow, and quaffed a cup of good old Flemish ale.

'T was purchased by an English squire to please his loving dame,
Who saw the cherubs, and conceived a longing for the same           ;
And oft as on the ancient stock another twig was found,
'T was filled with caudle spiced and hot, and handed smoking round.

But, changing hands, it reached at length a Puritan divine,
Who used to follow Timothy, and take a little wine,
But hated punch and prelacy                                 
; and so it was, perhaps,
He went to Leyden, where he found conventicles and schnaps.

And then, of course, you know what 's next, — it left the Dutchman's shore
With those that in the Mayflower came, — a hundred souls and more, —
Along with all the furniture, to fill their new abodes,
To judge by what is still on hand, at least a hundred loads.

'T was on a dreary winter's eve, the night was closing dim,
When brave Miles Standish took the bowl, and filled it to the brim ;
The little Captain stood and stirred the posset with his sword,
And all his sturdy men-at-arms were ranged about the board.

He poured the fiery Hollands in, — the man that never feared, —
He took a long and solemn draught, and wiped his yellow beard        ;
And one by one the musketeers — the men that fought and prayed —
All drank as 't were their mother's milk, and not a man afraid.

That night, affrighted from his nest, the screaming eagle flew,
He heard the Pequot's ringing whoop, the soldier's wild halloo    ;
And there the sachem learned the rule he taught to kith and kin,
"Run from the white man when you find he smells of Hollands gin!"

A hundred years, and fifty more, had spread their leaves and snows,
A thousand rubs had flattened down each little cherub's nose,
When once again the bowl was filled, but not in mirth or joy,
'T was mingled by a mother's hand to cheer her parting boy.

Drink, John, she said, 't will do you good, — poor child, you'll never bear
This working in the dismal trench, out in the midnight air                    ;
And if — God bless me! — you were hurt, 't would keep away the chill      ;
So John did drink,--and well he wrought that night at Bunker's Hill!

I tell you, there was generous warmth in good old English cheer ;
I tell you, 't was a pleasant thought to bring its symbol here.
'T is but the fool that loves excess                            
; — hast thou a drunken soul?
Thy bane is in thy shallow skull, not in my silver bowl!

I love the memory of the past, — its pressed yet fragrant flowers, —
The moss that clothes its broken walls, — the ivy on its towers        ; —
Nay, this poor bawble it bequeathed, — my eyes grow moist and dim,
To think of all the vanished joys that danced around its brim.

Then fill a fair and honest cup, and bear it straight to me                 ;
The goblet hallows all it holds, whate'er the liquid be                     ;
And may the cherubs on its face protect me from the sin
That dooms one to those dreadful words, — "My dear, where have you been?"

TO the assembled folk
At great St. Kavin’s spoke
Young Brother Amiel on Christmas Eve             ;
I give you joy, my friends,
That as the round year ends,
We meet once more for gladness by God’s leave.

On other festal days
For penitence or praise
Or prayer we meet, or fullness of thanksgiving  ;
To-night we calendar
The rising of that star
Which lit the old world with new joy of living.

Ah, we disparage still
The Tidings of Good Will,
Discrediting Love’s gospel now as then!
And with the verbal creed
That God is love indeed,
Who dares make Love his god before all men?

Shall we not, therefore, friends,
Resolve to make amends
To that glad inspiration of the heart ;
To grudge not, to cast out
Selfishness, malice, doubt,
Anger and fear                        ; and for the better part,

To love so much, so well,
The spirit cannot tell
The range and sweep of her own boundary!
There is no period
Between the soul and God                  ;
Love is the tide, God the eternal sea.…

To-day we walk by love                      ;
To strive is not enough,
Save against greed and ignorance and might.
We apprehend peace comes
Not with the roll of drums,
But in the still processions of the night.

And we perceive, not awe
But love is the great law
That binds the world together safe and whole.
The splendid planets run
Their courses in the sun                      ;
Love is the gravitation of the soul.

In the profound unknown,
Illumined, fair, and lone,
Each star is set to shimmer in its place.
In the profound divine
Each soul is set to shine,
And its unique appointed orbit trace.

There is no near nor far,
Where glorious Algebar
Swings round his mighty circuit through the night,
Yet where without a sound
The winged seed comes to ground,
And the red leaf seems hardly to alight.

One force, one lore, one need
For satellite and seed,
In the serene benignity for all.
Letting her time-glass run
With star-dust, sun by sun,
In Nature’s thought there is no great nor small.

There is no far nor near
Within the spirit’s sphere.
The summer sunset’s scarlet-yellow wings
Are tinged with the same dye
That paints the tulip’s ply.
And what is colour but the soul of things?

(The earth was without form                          ;
God moulded it with storm,
Ice, flood, and tempest, gleaming tint and hue       ;
Lest it should come to ill
For lack of spirit still,
He gave it colour,—let the love shine through.)…

Of old, men said, ‘Sin not                 ;
By every line and jot
Ye shall abide                               ; man’s heart is false and vile.’
Christ said, ‘By love alone
In man’s heart is God known                ;
Obey the word no falsehood can defile.’…

And since that day we prove
Only how great is love,
Nor to this hour its greatness half believe.
For to what other power
Will life give equal dower,
Or chaos grant one moment of reprieve!

Look down the ages’ line,
Where slowly the divine
Evinces energy, puts forth control      ;
See mighty love alone
Transmuting stock and stone,
Infusing being, helping sense and soul.

And what is energy,
In-working, which bids be
The starry pageant and the life of earth?
What is the genesis
Of every joy and bliss,
Each action dared, each beauty brought to birth?

What hangs the sun on high?
What swells the growing rye?
What bids the loons cry on the Northern lake?
What stirs in swamp and swale,
When April winds prevail,
And all the dwellers of the ground awake?…

What lurks in the deep gaze
Of the old wolf? Amaze,
Hope, recognition, gladness, anger, fear.
But deeper than all these
Love muses, yearns, and sees,
And is the self that does not change nor veer.

Not love of self alone,
Struggle for lair and bone,
But self-denying love of mate and young,
Love that is kind and wise,
Knows trust and sacrifice,
And croons the old dark universal tongue.…

And who has understood
Our brothers of the wood,
Save he who puts off guile and every guise
Of violence,—made truce
With panther, bear, and moose,
As beings like ourselves whom love makes wise?

For they, too, do love’s will,
Our lesser clansmen still                       ;
The House of Many Mansions holds us all         ;
Courageous, glad and hale,
They go forth on the trail,
Hearing the message, hearkening to the call.…

Open the door to-night
Within your heart, and light
The lantern of love there to shine afar.
On a tumultuous sea
Some straining craft, maybe,
With bearings lost, shall sight love’s silver star.

As I rode out this enderes night,
Of three ioli sheppardes I saw a sight,
And all abowte there fold a star shone bright  ;
They sang, terli, terlow                       ;
So mereli the sheppardes their pipes can blow.

Doune from heaven, from heaven so hie,
Of angeles ther came a great companie,
With mirthe, and joy, and great solemnitye,
The sange, terly, terlow                       ;
So mereli the sheppardes their pipes can blow.

In honor of Saint John we thus
Do keep good Christmas cheer            ;
And he that comes to dine with us,
I think he need not spare.
The butcher he hath killed good beef,
The caterer brings it in                ;
But Christmas pies are still the chief,
If that I durst begin.

Our bacon-hogs are full and fat
To make us brawn and souse        ;
Full well may I rejoice thereat
To see them in the house.
But yet the minced-pie it is
That sets my teeth on water       ;
Good mistress, let me have a bit,
For I do long thereafter.

And I will fetch you water in
To brew and bake withal,
Your love and favor still to win
When as you please to call.
Then grant me, dame, your love and leave
To taste your pie-meat here              ;
It is the best, in my conceit,
Of all your Christmas-cheer.

The cloves, and mace, and gallant plums
That here on heaps do lie,
And prunes as big as both my thumbs,
Enticeth much mine eye.
Oh, let me eat my belly-full
Of your good Christmas-pie              ;
Except thereat I have a pull,
I think I sure shall die.

Good master, stand my loving friend,
For Christmas-time is short,
And when it comes unto an end
I may no longer sport                ;
Then while it doth continue here,
Let me such labor find
To eat my fill of that good cheer
That best doth please my mind.

Then I shall thank my dame therefore,
That gives her kind consent
That Jack, your boy, with others more,
May have this Christmas spent
In pleasant mirth and merry glee,
As young men most delight              ;
For that's the only sport for me,
And so God give you all good-night.

O than the fairest day, thrice fairer night!
Night to blest days in which a sun doth rise
Of which that golden age which clears the skies
Is but a sparkling ray, a shadow-light!
And blessed ye, in silly pastors' sight,
Mild creatures, in whose warm crib now lies
That heaven-sent youngling, holy-maid-born wight:
Midst, end, beginning of our prophecies!
Blest cottage that hath flowers in winter spread,
Though withered--blessed grass that hath the grace
To deck and be a carpet to that place!
Thus sang, unto the sounds, of oaten reed,
Before the Babe, the shepherds bowed on knees      ;
And springs ran nectar, honey dropped from trees.

Heavens, let loose your balmy showers!
For now is risen the bright day-star,
Fro the rose Mary, flower of flowers:
The clear Son, whom no cloud devours,
Surpassing Phebus in the East,
Is coming from his heavenly tower:
Et nobis Puer natus est.

Archangels, angels, and dominations,
Thrones, potentates, and martyrs various,
And all ye heavenly operations,
Star, planet, firmament, and sphere,
Fire, earth, air, and water clear,
To Him give loving, most and least,
That come in to so meek manner            ;
Et nobis Puer natus est.

Sinners be glad, and penance do,
And thank your Maker heartily       ;
For he that ye might not come to
To you is coming full humbly
Your souls with his blood to buy
And free you of the fiends arrest--
And only of his own mercy           ;
Pro nobis Puer natus est.

All clergy do to him incline,
And bow unto that babe benign,
And do your observance divine
To him that is of kings King:
Incense his altar, read and sing
In holy church, with mind digest,
Him honoring above all thing
Qui nobis Puer natus est.

Celestial fouls in the air,
Sing with your notes upon hight,
In firths and in forests fair
Be mirthful now with all your might   ;
For passed is your dismal night,
Aurora has the clouds pierced,
The Son is risen with gladsome light,
Et nobis Puer natus est.

Now spring up flours from the root,
Revert you upward naturally,
In honor of the blessed fruit
That rose up from the rose Mary      ;
Lay out your leaves lustily,
From dead take life now at the least
In worship of that Prince worthy
Qui nobis Puer natus est.

Sing, heaven imperial, most of high!
Regions of air make harmony!
All fish in fluid and fowl of flight
Be mirthful and make melody!
All Gloria in excelsis cry!
Heaven, earth, sea, man, bird, and beast,--
He that is crowned above the sky
Pro nobis Puer natus est!

On this blessed eve we sing
Glad tidings ! Glad tidings !
To men of goodwill we bring
Glad tidings ! Glad tidings !

Lo ! The Prince of Peace and light
Lay in a manger :
Wouldst thou have Him here to-night,
House the poor stranger.

We are children of the Lord,
Loving each other              ;
Be thou His, by love restored,
Father or brother              ;

Let us in, and let us bring
Glad tidings! Glad tiding! --
In the dark we pass and sing
Glad tidings! Glad tidings !

He who was the King of kings —
He and none other —
Came not borne on angels' wings
To His poor mother

For He came to weep and smile,
Humble and lowly                 ;
Came to share all pain and toil,
Making them holy.

So we come this night to sing
Glad tidings ! Glad tidings !
And to all this house we bring
Glad tidings ! Glad tidings !

On this blessed eve we sing
Glad tidings ! Glad tidings !
Unto sinful men we bring
Glad tidings ! Glad tidings !

Christ hath pour d His blood like wine
For all the sinning
He who came this night divine,
Our Salvation winning.

In our Father s house above
All the lights are burning  ;
He is waiting full of love
For His sons returning.

Come away                      ; and let us bring
Glad tidings! Glad tidings!
Awhile with us the angels sing
Glad tidings ! Glad tidings !

He who took our mortal life,
This night with crying           ;
Victor in death's mortal strife,
He holds the dying :

In His arms He holds them first,
When they are failing !
When the moment comes at last,
Hush'd he our wailing.

For to us on earth they cry,
Glad tidings ! Glad tidings !
O grave, where is thy victory !
Glad tidings ! Glad tidings !

Upon my lap my Sovereign sits,
And sucks upon my breast             ;
Meanwhile his love sustains my life,
And gives my body rest.

Sing, lullaby, my little boy,
Sing, lullaby, my lives joy.

When thou hast taken thy repast,
Repose, my babe, on me.
So may thy mother and thy nurse,
Thy cradle also be.

Sing, lullaby, my little boy,
Sing, lullaby, my lives joy.

I grieve that duty doth not work
All that my wishing would,
Because I would not be to thee
But in the best I should.

Sing, lullaby, my little boy,
Sing, lullaby, my lives joy.

Yet as I am and as I may,
I must and will be thine,
Though all too little for thyself
Vouchsafing to be mine.

Sing, lullaby, my little boy,
Sing, lullaby, my lives joy.

My wits, my words, my deeds, my thoughts,
And else what is in me,
I rather will not wish to use,
If not in serving thee.

Sing, lullaby, my little boy,
Sing, lullaby, my lives joy.

My babe, my bliss, my child, my choice,
My fruit, my flower, and bud,
My Jesus, and my only joy,
The sum of all my good.

Sing, lullaby, my little boy,
Sing, lullaby, my lives joy.

My sweetness, and the sweetest most
That heaven could earth deliver,
Soul of my love, spirit of my life,
Abide with me for ever.

Sing, lullaby, my little boy,
Sing, lullaby, my lives joy.

Live still with me, and be my love,
And death will me refrain,
Unless thou let me die with thee,
To live with thee again.

Sing, lullaby, my little boy,
Sing, lullaby, my lives joy.

Leave now to wail, thou luckless wight
That wrought'st thy race's woe,
Redress is found, and foiled is
Thy fruit-alluring foe.

Sing, lullaby, my little boy,
Sing, lullaby, my lives joy.

The fruit of death from Paradise
Made thee exiled mourn           ;
My fruit of life to Paradise
Makes joyful thy return.

Sing, lullaby, my little boy,
Sing, lullaby, my lives joy.

Grow up, good fruit, be nourished by
These fountains two of me,
That only flow with maiden's milk,
The only meat for thee.

Sing, lullaby, my little boy,
Sing, lullaby, my lives joy.

The earth is now a heaven become,
And this base bower of mine,
A princely palace unto me,
My son doth make to shine.

Sing, lullaby, my little boy,
Sing, lullaby, my lives joy.

His sight gives clearness to my sight,
When waking I him see,
And sleeping, his mild countenance
Gives favour unto me.

Sing, lullaby, my little boy,
Sing, lullaby, my lives joy.

When I him in mine arms embrace,
I feel my heart embraced,
Even by the inward grace of his,
Which he in me hath placed.

Sing, lullaby, my little boy,
Sing, lullaby, my lives joy.

And when I kiss his loving lips,
Then his sweet-smelling breath
Doth yield a savour to my soul,
That feeds love, hope, and faith.

Sing, lullaby, my little boy,
Sing, lullaby, my lives joy.

The shepherds left their keeping sheep,
For joy to see my lamb                  ;
How may I more rejoice to see
Myself to be the dam.

Sing, lullaby, my little boy,
Sing, lullaby, my lives joy.

Three kings their treasures hither brought
Of incense, myrrh, and gold                ;
The heaven s treasure and the king
That here they might behold.

Sing, lullaby, my little boy,
Sing, lullaby, my lives joy.

One sort an angel did direct,
A star did guide the other,
And all the fairest son to see
That ever had a mother.

Sing, lullaby, my little boy,
Sing, lullaby, my lives joy.

This sight I see, this child I have,
This infant I embrace,
O endless comfort of the earth,
And heaven's eternal grace.

Sing, lullaby, my little boy,
Sing, lullaby, my lives joy.

Thee sanctity herself doth serve,
Thee goodness doth attend,
Thee blessedness doth wait upon,
And virtues all commend.

Sing, lullaby, my little boy,
Sing, lullaby, my lives joy.

Great kings and prophets wished have
To see that I possess,
Yet wish I never thee to see,
If not i n thankfulness.

Sing, lullaby, my little boy,
Sing, lullaby, my lives joy.

Let heaven and earth, and saints and men,
Assistance give to me,
That all their most occurring aid
Augment my thanks to thee.

Sing, lullaby, my little boy,
Sing, lullaby, my lives joy.

And let the ensuing blessed race,
Thou wilt succeeding raise,
Join all their praises unto mine,
To multiply thy praise.

Sing, lullaby, my little boy,
Sing, lullaby, my lives joy.

And take my service well in worth,
And Joseph s here with me,
Who of my husband bears the name,
Thy servant for to be.

Sing, lullaby, my little boy,
Sing, lullaby, my lives joy.

Christmas Eve, and twelve of the clock,
"Now they are all on their knees,"
An elder said as we sat in a flock
By the embers in hearthside ease.

We pictured the meek mild creatures where
They dwelt in their strawy pen,
Nor did it occur to one of us there
To doubt they were kneeling then.

So fair a fancy few would weave
In these years! Yet, I feel,
If someone said on Christmas Eve,
"Come                             ; see the oxen kneel,

"In the lonely barton by yonder coomb
Our childhood used to know,"
I should go with him in the gloom,
Hoping it might be so.

But peaceful was the night
Wherein the Prince of Light
His reign of peace upon the earth began.
The winds with wonder whist,
Smoothly the waters kist,
Whispering new joys to the mild Ocean,--
Who now hath quite forgot to rave,
While birds of calm sit brooding on the charmed wave.

The stars, with deep amaze,
Stand fixed in steadfast gaze,
Bending one way their precious influence           ;
And will not take their flight,
For all the morning light,
Or Lucifer that often warned them thence           ;
But in their glimmering orbs did glow,
Until their Lord himself bespake, and bid them go.

And, though the shady gloom
Had given day her room,
The sun himself withheld his wonted speed,
And hid his head for shame,
As his inferior flame
The new-enlightened world no more should need:
He saw a greater Sun appear
Than his bright throne or burning axletree could bear.

All hail to the days that merit more praise
Than all the rest of the year,
And welcome the nights that double delights
As well for the poor as the peer!
Good fortune attend each merry-man's friend,
That doth but the best that he may            ;
Forgetting old wrongs, with carols and songs,
To drive the cold winter away.

Let Misery pack, with a whip at his back,
To the deep Tantalian flood                      ;
In Lethe profound let envy be drown'd,
That pines at another man's good                 ;
Let Sorrow's expense be banded from hence,
All payments have greater delay,
We'll spend the long nights in cheerful delights
To drive the cold winter away.

'Tis ill for a mind to anger inclined
To think of small injuries now                  ;
If wrath be to seek, do not lend her thy cheek,
Nor let her inhabit thy brow,
Cross out of thy books malevolent looks,
Both beauty and youth's decay,
And wholly consort with mirth and with sport
To drive the cold winter away.

The court in all state now opens her gate
And gives a free welcome to most             ;
The city likewise, tho' somewhat precise,
Doth willingly part with her roast:
But yet by report from city and court
The country will e'er gain the day           ;
More liquor is spent and with better content
To drive the cold winter away.

Our good gentry there for costs do not spare,
The yeomanry fast not till Lent               ;
The farmers and such think nothing too much,
If they keep but to pay for their rent.
The poorest of all now do merrily call,
When at a fit place they can stay,
For a song or a tale or a cup of good ale
To drive the cold winter away.

Thus none will allow of solitude now
But merrily greets the time,
To make it appear of all the whole year
That this is accounted the prime:
December is seen apparell'd in green,
And January fresh as May
Comes dancing along with a cup and a song
To drive the cold winter away.

This time of the year is spent in good cheer,
And neighbors together do meet
To sit by the fire, with friendly desire,
Each other in love to greet                   ;
Old grudges forgot are put in the pot,
All sorrows aside they lay                    ;
The old and the young doth carol this song
To drive the cold winter away.

Sisley and Nanny, more jocund than any,
As blithe as the month of June,
Do carol and sing like birds of the spring,
No nightingale sweeter in tune                   ;
To bring in content, when summer is spent,
In pleasant delight and play,
With mirth and good cheer to end the whole year,
And drive the cold winter away.

The shepherd, the swain, do highly disdain
To waste out their time in care                ;
And Clim of the Clough hath plenty enough
If he but a penny can spare
To spend at the night, in joy and delight,
Now after his labor all day                    ;
For better than lands is the help of his hands
To drive the cold winter away.

To mask and to mum kind neighbors will come
With wassails of nut-brown ale,
To drink and carouse to all in the house
As merry as bucks in the dale                           ;
Where cake, bread, and cheese are brought for your fees
To make you the longer stay                             ;
At the fire to warm 'twill do you no harm,
To drive the cold winter away.

When Christmas's tide comes in like a bride
With holly and ivy clad,
Twelve days in the year much mirth and good cheer
In every household is had                         ;
The country guise is then to devise
Some gambols of Christmas play,
Whereat the young men do best that they can
To drive the cold winter away.

When white-bearded frost hath threatened his worst,
And fallen from branch and brier,
Then time away calls from husbandry halls
And from the good countryman's fire,
Together to go to plough and to sow,
To get us both food and array,
And thus with content the time we have spent
To drive the cold winter away.

Provide for Christmas ere that it do come
To feast thy neighbour good cheer to have some  ;
Good bread and drink, a fire in the hall,
Brawn, pudding, souse and good mustard withal   ;
beef, mutton, pork, and shred pies of the best,
Pig, veal, goose, capon, and turkey well drest  ;
Apples and nuts to throw about the hall,
That boys and girls may scramble for them all.
Sing jolly carols, make the fiddlers play,
Let scrupulous fanatics keep away               ;
For oftentimes seen no arranter knave
Than some who do counterfeit most to be grave.

Ring out, wild bells, to the wild sky,
The flying cloud, the frosty light     ;
The year is dying in the night         ;
Ring out, wild bells, and let him die.

Ring out the old, ring in the new,
Ring, happy bells, across the snow:
The year is going, let him go         ;
Ring out the false, ring in the true.

Ring out the grief that saps the mind,
For those that here we see no more,
Ring out the feud of rich and poor,
Ring in redress to all mankind.

Ring out a slowly dying cause,
And ancient forms of party strife ;
Ring in the nobler modes of life,
With sweeter manners, purer laws.

Ring out the want, the care the sin,
The faithless coldness of the times    ;
Ring out, ring out my mournful rhymes,
But ring the fuller minstrel in.

Ring out false pride in place and blood,
The civic slander and the spite          ;
Ring in the love of truth and right,
Ring in the common love of good.

Ring out old shapes of foul disease,
Ring out the narrowing lust of gold  ;
Ring out the thousand wars of old,
Ring in the thousand years of peace.

Ring in the valiant man and free,
The larger heart, the kindlier hand ;
Ring out the darkness of the land,
Ring in the Christ that is to be.

He comes in the night! He comes in the night!
He softly, silently comes                              ;
While the little brown heads on the pillows so white
Are dreaming of bugles and drums.
He cuts through the snow like a ship through the foam,
While the white flakes around him whirl                ;
Who tells him I know not, but he findeth the home
Of each good little boy and girl.

His sleigh it is long, and deep, and wide    ;
It will carry a host of things,
While dozens of drums hang over the side,
With the sticks sticking under the strings:
And yet not the sound of a drum is heard,
Not a bugle blast is blown,
As he mounts to the chimney-top like a bird,
And drops to the hearth like a stone.

The little red stockings he silently fills,
Till the stockings will hold no more             ;
The bright little sleds for the great snow hills
Are quickly set down on the floor.
Then Santa Claus mounts to the roof like a bird,
And glides to his seat in the sleigh             ;
Not the sound of a bugle or drum is heard
As he noiselessly gallops away.

He rides to the East, and he rides to the West,
Of his goodies he touches not one               ;
He eateth the crumbs of the Christmas feast
When the dear little folks are done.
Old Santa Claus doeth all that he can           ;
This beautiful mission is his                   ;
Then, children, be good to the little old man,
When you find who the little man is.

With wild surprise
Four great eyes
In two small heads,
From neighboring beds
Looked out—and winked—
And glittered and blinked
At a very queer sight
In the dim starlight.

As plain as can be
A fairy tree
Flashes and glimmers
And shakes and shimmers.
Red, green and blue
Meet their view          ;
Silver and gold
Their sharp eyes behold  ;
Small moon, big stars    ;
And jams in jars,
And cakes, and honey
And thimbles, and money,
Pink dogs, blue cats,
Little squeaking rats,
And candles, and dolls,
And crackers, and polls,
A real bird that sings,
And tokens and favors,
And all sorts of things
For the little shavers.

Four black eyes
Grow big with surprise       ;
And then grow bigger
When a tiny figure,
Jaunty and airy,
(Is it a fairy?)
From the tree-top cries,
"Open wide! Black Eyes!
Come, children, wake now!
Your joys you may take now!"

Quick as you can think
Twenty small toes
In four pretty rows,
Like little piggies pink,
All kick in the air—
And before you can wink
The tree stands bare!

Sweet, harmless livers! on whose holy leisure
Waits innocence and pleasure                          ;
Whose leaders to those pastures and clear springs
Were patriarchs, saints, and kings                    ;
How happened it that in the dead of night
You only saw true light,
While Palestine was fast asleep and lay
Without one thought of day?
Was it because those first and blessed swains
Were pilgrims on those plains
When they received the promise, for which now
'Twas there first shown to you?
'Tis true he loves that dust whereon they go
That serve him here below,
And therefore might for memory of those
His love then first disclose                          ;
But wretched Salem, once his love, must now
No voice nor vision know                              ;
Her stately piles with all their height and pride
Now languished and died,
And Bethl'em's humble cots above them stept
While all her seers slept                             ;
Her cedar fir, hewed stones, and gold were all
Polluted through their fall                           ;
And those once sacred mansions were now
Mere emptiness and show.
This made the angel call at reeds and thatch,
Yet where the shepherds watch,
And God's own lodging, though he could not lack,
To be a common rack.
No costly pride, no soft-clothed luxury
In those thin cells could lie                         ;
Each stirring wind and storm blew through their cots,
Which never harbored plots                            ;
Only content and love and humble joys
Lived there without all noise                         ;
Perhaps some harmless cares for the next day
Did in their bosoms play:
As where to lead their sheep, what silent nook,
What springs or shades to look                        ;
But that was all 
and now with gladsome care
They for the town prepare                             ;
They leave their flock, and in a busy talk
All towards Bethl'em walk,
To seek their soul's great Shepherd who was come
To bring all stragglers home                          ;
Where now they find him out, and, taught before,
The Lamb of God adore,
That Lamb, whose days great kings and prophets wished
And longed to see, but missed.
The first light they beheld was bright and gay,
And turned their night to day                         ;
But to this later light they saw in him,
Their day was dark and dim.

Oh, the Shepherds in Judea,
They are pacing to and fro,
For the air grows chill at twilight
And the weanling lambs are slow!

Leave, O lambs, the dripping sedges, quit the bramble and the brier,
Leave the fields of barley stubble, for we light the watching fire   ;
Twinkling fires across the twilight, and a bitter watch to keep,
Lest the prowlers come a-thieving where the flocks unguarded sleep.

Oh, the Shepherds in Judea,
They are singing soft and low—
Song the blessed angels taught them
All the centuries ago!

There was never roof to hide them, there were never walls to bind    ;
Stark they lie beneath the star-beams, whom the blessed angels find,
With the huddled flocks upstarting, wondering if they hear aright,
While the Kings come riding, riding, solemn shadows in the night.

Oh, the Shepherds in Judea,
They are thinking, as they go,
Of the light that broke their watching
On the hillside in the snow!—

Scattered snow along the hillside, white as springtime fleeces are,
With the whiter wings above them and the glory-streaming star—
Guiding-star across the housetops                                   
never fear the Shepherds felt
Till they found the Babe in manger where the kindly cattle knelt.

Oh, the Shepherds in Judea!—
Do you think the Shepherds know
How the whole round earth is brightened
In the ruddy Christmas glow?

How the sighs are lost in laughter, and the laughter brings the tears,
As the thoughts of men go seeking back across the darkling years
Till they find the wayside stable that the star-led Wise Men found,
With the Shepherds, mute, adoring, and the glory shining round!

O than the fairest day, thrice fairer night!
Night to blest days in which a sun doth rise
Of which that golden eye which clears the skies
Is but a sparkling ray, a shadow-light!
And blessed ye, in silly pastors' sight,
Mild creatures, in whose warm crib now lies
That heaven-sent youngling, holy-maid-born wight,
Midst, end, beginning of our prophecies!
Blest cottage that hath flowers in winter spread,
Though withered - blessed grass that hath the grace
To deck and be a carpet to that place!
Thus sang, unto the sounds of oaten reed,
Before the Babe, the shepherds bowed on knees       ;
And springs ran nectar, honey dropped from trees.

When on the barn's thatch'd roof is seen
The moss in tufts of liveliest green     ;
When Roger to the wood pile goes,
And, as he turns, his fingers blows      ;
When all around is cold and drear,
Be sure that Christmas-tide is near.

When up the garden walk in vain
We seek for Flora's lovely train       ;
When the sweet hawthorn bower is bare,
And bleak and cheerless is the air     ;
When all seems desolate around,
Christmas advances o'er the ground.

When Tom at eve comes home from plough,
And brings the mistletoe's green bough,
With milk-white berries spotted o'er,
And shakes it the sly maids before,
Then hangs the trophy up on high,
Be sure that Christmas-tide is nigh.

When Hal, the woodman, in his clogs,
Bears home the huge unwieldly logs,
That, hissing on the smould'ring fire,
Flame out at last a quiv'ring spire    ;
When in his hat the holly stands,
Old Christmas musters up his bands.

When cluster'd round the fire at night,
Old William talks of ghost and sprite,
And, as a distant out-house gate
Slams by the wind, they fearful wait,
While some each shadowy nook explore,
Then Christmas pauses at the door.

When Dick comes shiv'ring from the yard,
And says the pond is frozen hard,
While from his hat, all white with snow,
The moisture, trickling, drops below,
While carols sound, the night to cheer,
Then Christmas and his train are here.

All the house was asleep,
And the fire burning low,
When, from far up the chimney,
Came down a "Ho! ho!"
And a little, round man,
With a terrible scratching,
Dropped into the room
With a wink that was catching.
Yes, down he came, bumping,
And thumping, and jumping,
And picking himself up without sign
of a bruise!

"Ho! ho!" he kept on,
As if bursting with cheer.
"Good children, gay children,
Glad children, see here!
I have brought you fine dolls,
And gay trumpets, and rings,
Noah's arks, and bright skates,
And a host of good things!
I have brought a whole sackful,
A packful, a hackful!
Come hither, come hither, come hither
and choose!

"Ho! ho! What is this?
Why, they all are asleep!
But their stockings are up,
And my presents will keep!
So, in with the candies,
The books, and the toys               ;
All the goodies I have
For the good girls and boys.
I'll ram them, and jam them,
And slam them, and cram them          ;
All the stockings will hold while the
tired youngsters snooze."

All the while his round shoulders
Kept ducking and ducking          ;
And his little, fat fingers
Kept tucking and tucking          ;
Until every stocking
Bulged out, on the wall,
As if it were bursting,
And ready to fall.

And then, all at once,
With a whisk and a whistle,
And twisting himself
Like a tough bit of gristle,
He bounced up again,
Like the down of a thistle,
And nothing was left but the prints of his shoes.

Son of a Virgin, Maker of thy Mother,
thou, Rod and Blossom from a Stem unstainèd,
now while a virgin fair of fame we honour,
hear our devotion!

Lo, on thy handmaid fell a twofold blessing,
who, in her body vanquishing the weakness,
in that same body, grace from heaven obtaining,
bore the world witness.

Death, nor the rending pains of death appalled her ;
bondage and torment found her undefeated:
so by the shedding of her life attained she
heavenly guerdon.

Fountain of mercy, hear the prayers she offers ;
purge our offenses, pardon our transgressions,
so that hereafter we to thee may render
praise with thanksgiving.

Thou, the All-Father, thou the One-Begotten,
thou Holy Spirit, Three in One co-equal,
glory be henceforth thine through all the ages,
world without ending.

Blow, blow thou winter wind—
Thou art not so unkind
As man's ingratitude!
Thy tooth is not so keen,
Because thou art not seen,
Although thy breath be rude.
Heigh ho! sing heigh ho! unto the green holly:
Most friendship is feigning, most loving mere folly.
Then heigh ho! the holly!
This life is most jolly!

Freeze, freeze, thou bitter sky—
Thou dost not bite so nigh
As benefits forgot!
Though thou the waters warp,
Thy sting is not so sharp
As friend remembered not.
Heigh ho! sing heigh ho! unto the green holly,
Most friendship is feigning, most loving mere folly.
Then heigh ho, the holly!
This life is most jolly!

Sleep, Thou little Child of Mary:
Rest Thee now.
Though these hands be rough from shearing
And the plough,

Yet they shall not ever fail Thee,
When the waiting nations hail Thee,
Bringing palms unto their King.
Now--I sing.

Sleep, Thou little Child of Mary,
Hope divine.
If Thou wilt but smile upon me,
I will twine
Blossoms for Thy garlanding.
Thou'rt so little to be King,
God's Desire!
Not a brier
Shall be left to grieve Thy brow  ;
Rest Thee now.

Sleep, Thou little Child of Mary.
Some fair day
Wilt Thou, as Thou wert a brother,
Come away
Over hills and over hollow?
All the lambs will up and follow,
Follow but for love of Thee.
Lov'st Thou me?

Sleep, Thou little Child of Mary      ;
Rest Thee now.
I that watch am come from sheep-stead
And from plough.
Thou wilt have disdain of me
When Thou'rt lifted, royally,
Very high for all to see:
Smilest Thou?

Upon my lap my sovereign sits
And sucks upon my breast            ;
Meantime his love maintains my life
And gives my sense her rest.
Sing lullaby, my little boy,
Sing lullaby, mine only joy!

When thou hast taken thy repast,
Repose, my babe, on me           ;
So may thy mother and thy nurse
Thy cradle also be.
Sing lullaby, my little boy,
Sing lullaby, mine only joy!

I grieve that duty doth not work
All that my wishing would,
Because I would not be to thee
But in the best I should.
Sing lullaby, my little boy,
Sing lullaby, mine only joy!

Yet as I am, and as I may
I must and will be thine,
Though all too little for thyself
Vouchsafing to be mine.
Sing lullaby, my little boy,
Sing lullaby, mine only joy!

There were seven angels erst that spanned
Heaven's roadway out through space,
Lighting with stars, by God's command,
The fringe of that high place
Whence plumed beings in their joy,
The servitors His thoughts employ,
Fly ceaselessly. No goodlier band
Looked upward to His face.

There, on bright hovering wings that tire
Never, they rested mute,
Nor of far journeys had desire,
Nor of the deathless fruit                ;
For in and through each angel soul
All waves of life and knowledge roll,
Even as to nadir streamed the fire
Of their torches resolute.

They lighted Michael's outpost through
Where fly the armored brood,
And the wintry Earth their omens knew
Of Spring's beatitude                  ;
Rude folk, ere yet the promise came,
Gave to their orbs a heathen name,
Saying how steadfast in men's view
The watchful Pleiads stood.

All in the solstice of the year,
When the sun apace must turn,
The seven bright angels 'gan to hear
Heaven's twin gates outward yearn:
Forth with its light and minstrelsy
A lordly troop came speeding by,
And joyed to see each cresset sphere
So gloriously burn.

Staying his fearless passage then
The Captain of that host
Spake with strong voice: "We bear to men
God's gift the uttermost,
Whereof the oracle and sign
Sibyl and sages may divine:
A star shall blazon in their ken,
Borne with us from your post.

"This night the Heir of Heaven's throne
A new-born mortal lies!
Since Earth's first morning hath not shone
Such joy in seraph eyes."
He spake. The least in honor there
Answered with longing like a prayer,—
"My star, albeit thenceforth unknown,
Shall light for you Earth's skies."

Onward the blessed legion swept,
That angel at the head                  ;
(Where seven of old their station kept
There are six that shine instead.)
Straight hitherward came troop and star ;
Like some celestial bird afar
Into Earth's night the cohort leapt
With beauteous wings outspread.

Dazzling the East beneath it there,
The Star gave out its rays:
Right through the still Judean air
The shepherds see it blaze,--
They see the plume-borne heavenly throng,
And hear a burst of that high song
Of which in Paradise aware
Saints count their years but days.

For they sang such music as, I deem,
In God's chief court of joys,
Had stayed the flow of the crystal stream
And made souls in mid-flight poise        ;
They sang of Glory to Him most High,
Of Peace on Earth abidingly,
And of all delights the which, men dream,
Nor sin nor grief alloys.

Breathless the kneeling shepherds heard,
Charmed from their first rude fear,
Nor while that music dwelt had stirred
Were it a month or year:
And Mary Mother drank its flow,
Couched with her Babe divine,--and, lo!
Ere falls the last ecstatic word
Three Holy Kings draw near.

Whenas the star-led shining train
Wheeled from their task complete,
Skyward from over Bethlehem's plain
They sped with rapture fleet                 ;
And the angel of that orient star,
Thenceforth where Heaven's lordliest are,
Stands with a harp, while Christ doth reign,
A seraph near His feet.

Star of the East, whose beacon light
A gleam on Bethlehem threw,
And thither by that wondrous sight
Arabia's sages drew                  ;
On thee in thought we love to gaze
In western climes afar,
And think on thy mysterious rays,
Thou lovely eastern star.

Fair is the star of eve that sheds
Her light betokening rest            ;
And fair the morning star that leads
The day in glory drest:
But still more fair thy form arose,
And lovelier to behold,
Which of a more serene repose
A brighter glory told.

Hail thou, whose silvery radiance led
Those Magian chiefs to bring
Their choicest gifts, in worship spread
Before Judea's King:
That glorious Sun, whose harbinger
Thy light was made to shine,
And like the pillar'd flame to bear
Aloft salvation's sign!

Hail thou appointed to adorn
The rising King of heaven,
The promis'd Child to Judah born,
The Son to Israel given:
In whom the peaceful empire seal'd
Should more and more increase      ;
In Him, the mighty God reveal'd,
In Him, the Prince of Peace!

So on thy beacon light we gaze
In western climes afar,
And note thy heav'n-directed rays,
Thou lovely eastern star:
With praise to Him, who in the sky
Thy wondrous cresset hung,
Prompt to inform the observing eye,
Apart from speech or tongue.

Him who permits to all to see
The light their stations need           ;
Who chose the star-vers'd sage by thee,
Star of the east, to lead               ;
Who made by shepherd swains at night
The angel's voice be heard              ;
And gives to use his scripture's light,
His own recording word.

"I'd be the shiniest green,"
Wished once a sprig of holly,
"That e'er at Yule was seen,
And deck some banquet jolly!"

"I'd be the cheeriest red,"
Wished once the holly-berry,
"That e'er at board rich spread
Helped make the feasters merry!"

The life within them heard
Down dark and silent courses.
For each wish is a word
To those fair-hidden sources.

All Summer in the wood
While they were riper growing,
The deep roots understood
And helped without their knowing.

In a little market stall
At Yule the sprig lay waiting,
For fine folk one and all
Passed by that open grating.

The Eve of Christmas Day
It had been passed by many,
When one turned not away
And bought it for a penny.

Hers was a home of care
Which not a wreath made jolly  ;
The only Christmas there
Was that sweet sprig of holly.

"Oh, this is better far
Than banquet!" thought the berry ;
The leaves glowed like a star
And made the cottage merry!

Now after all our slaving, toiling,
In harvest or hot weather broiling,
This scorching weather's gone and past,
And shivering winter's come at last.
Good fires will now do very well,
For Christmas cheer begins to smell.
Those that in summer laboured hard,
Are for a Christmas storm prepared       ;
And from their store are able now
To feast themselves, and neighbours too,
With pork and mutton, veal and beef,
Of country feasting these are chief      ;
But those that yet would farther go,
May have a hollow bit or so,
Pig, capon, turkey, goose, and coney,
Whatever may be had for money            ;
Plum-pudding, cheese, and furmity,
With pasty, tarts, and Christmas pie,
Good nappy ale, or humming beer,
Suits very well to such good cheer.
Such plenteous living's their enjoyment,
While slothful lurking idle drones
Do scarce deserve to pick the bones.

The New Year is begun,
Good-morrow, my masters all!
The cheerful rising sun
Now shining in this hall,
Brings mirth and joy
To man and boy.
With all that here doth dwell     ;
Whom Jesus bless
With love's increase,
So all things shall prosper well.

A New-Year's gift I bring
Unto my master here,
Which is a welcome thing
Of mirth and merry cheer.
A New-Year's lamb
Come from thy dam
An hour before daybreak,
Your noted ewe
Doth this bestow,
Good master, for your sake.

And to my dame so kind
This New-Year's gift I bring      ;
I'll bear an honest mind
Unto her whilst I live.
Your white-woolled sheep
I'll safely keep
From harm of bush or brere,
That garments gay
For your array
May clothe you the next New Year.

And to your children all,
These New-Year's gifts I bring    ;
And though the price be small,
They're fit for queen or king:
Fair pippins red
Kept in my bed
A-mellowing since last year,
Whose beauty bright
So clear of sight
Their hearts will glad and cheer.

And to your maids and men
I bring both points and pins ;
Come bid me welcome then,
The good New Year begins:
And for my love
Let me approve
The friendship of your Maid,
Whose nappy ale,
So good and stale,
Will make my wits afraid.

I dare not with it deal
But in a sober diet:
If I, poor shepherd, steal
A draught to be unquiet,
And lose my way
This New-Year's day
As I go to my fold,
You'll surely think
My love of drink
This following year will hold.

Here stands my bottle and hook,
Good kitchen-maid, draw near,
Thou art an honest cook,
And canst brew ale and beer     ;
Thy office show,
Before I go,
My bottle and bag come fill,
And for thy sake
I'll merry make
Upon the next green hill.

This is now the winter time,
My merry gentlemen
Yule logs are burning in your hall,
Fair forms are circling in the ball,
And cups are filled with purple wine
To aid the pudding and the chine.

This is now the winter time                 ;
Remember, gentles, then,
That none shall starve while you dine       ;
That none shall thirst who grow the vine.
Yet give no alms in mean award,
But spread the just, the well-earned board.
This is now the winter time,
My noble gentlemen.

This is now the winter time,
My reverent clergymen               ;
Christ came to save in winter time,
And not in summer's sultry prime:
And He your pattern sure must be
When glows with red the holly tree.

This is now the winter time,
Remember, clerks all, then,
That Christ in winter came to save
Not only souls, but bodies brave.
The bread His body, and the wine
His blood. Then spread the feast divine ;
This is now the winter time,
My Christian clergymen.

This is now the winter time,
My honest working men,
"Weave truth with trust," ye weavers, then,
And "draw straight furrows," farming men,
And with good grace and no hard knocks —
Take justice for a Christmas box.

This is now the winter time,
Remember, workers, then,
That none should starve while others have,
That Christ in winter came to save,
And, but in no alms-taking way,
Accept your rights on New Year's day.
This is now the winter time,
My gallant working men.

Three Kings came riding from far away,
Melchoir and Gaspar and Baltasar                   ;
Three Wise Men out of the East were they,
And they travelled by night and they slept by day,
For their guide was a beautiful, wonderful star.

The star was so beautiful, large, and clear,
That all the other stars of the sky
Became a white mist in the atmosphere,
And by this they knew that the coming was near
Of the Prince foretold in the prophecy.

Three caskets they bore on their saddlebows,
Three caskets of gold with golden keys       ;
Their robes were of crimson silk with rows
Of bells and pomegranates and furbelows,
Their turbans like blossoming almond trees.

And so the Three Kings rode into the West,
Through the dusk of night, over hill and dell
And sometimes they nodded with beard on breast,
And sometimes talked, as they paused to rest,
With the people they met at some wayside well.

"Of the child that is born," said Baltasar,
"Good people, I pray you, tell us the news  ;
For we in the East have seen his star,
And have ridden fast, and have ridden far,
To find and worship the King of the Jews."

And the people answered, "You ask in vain      ;
We know of no king but Herod the Great!"
They thought the Wise Men were men insane,
As they spurred their horses across the plain,
Like riders in haste, and who cannot wait.

And when they came to Jerusalem,
Herod the Great, who had heard this thing,
Sent for the Wise Men and questioned them  ;
And said, "Go down unto Bethlehem,
And bring me tidings of this new king."

So they rode away                                     ; and the star stood still,
The only one in the gray of morn                      ;
Yes, it stopped, it stood still of its own free will,
Right over Bethlehem on the hill,
The city of David where Christ as born

And the Three Kings rode through the gate and the guard,
Through the silent street, till their horses turned
And neighed as they entered and great inn-yard           ;
But the windows were closed, and the doors were barred,
And only a light in the stable burned.

And cradled there in the scented hay,
In the air made sweet by the breath of kine,
The little child in the manger lay,
The child, that would be king one day
Of a kingdom not human but divine.

His mother Mary of Nazareth
Sat watching beside his place of rest,
Watching the even flow of his breath,
For the joy of life and the terror of death
Were mingled together in her breast.

They laid their offerings at his feet  ;
The gold was their tribute to a King,
The frankincense, with its odor sweet,
Was for the Priest, the Paraclete,
The myrrh for the body’s burying.

And the mother wondered and bowed her head,
And sat as still as a statue of stone        ;
Her heart was troubled yet comforted,
Remembering what the Angel had said
Of an endless reign and of David’s throne.

Then the Kings rode out of the city gate,
With a clatter of hoofs in proud array        ;
But they went not back to Herod the Great,
For they knew his malice and feared his hate,
And returned to their homes by another way.

The Ox he openeth wide the Doore,
And from the Snowe he calls her inne,
And he hath seen her Smile therefor,
Our Ladye without Sinne.
Now soone from Sleep
A Starre shall leap,
And soone arrive both King and Hinde:
Amen, Amen:
But O, the Place co'd I but finde!

The Ox hath hushed his voyce and bent
Trewe eyes of Pitty ore the Mow,
And on his lovelie Neck, forspent,
The Blessed layes her Browe.
Around her feet
Full Warme and Sweete
His bowerie Breath doth meeklie dwell:
Amen, Amen:
But sore am I with Vaine Travel!

The Ox is host in Judah stall
And Host of more than onelie one,
For close she gathereth withal
Our Lorde her littel Sonne.
Glad Hinde and King
Their Gyfte may bring,
But wo'd to-night my Teares were there,
Amen, Amen:
Between her Bosom and His hayre!

HE came not, with His heavenly crown, His sceptre clad with power,
His coming, was in feebleness, the infant of an hour               ;
An humble manger cradled, first, the Virgin's holy birth,
And lowing herds companioned there, the Lord of heaven and earth,

He came not, in His robe of wrath, with arm outstretched to slay ;
But, on the darkling paths of earth, to pour celestial day,
To guide in peace, the wandering feet                            ; the broken heart, to bind;
And bear, upon the painful cross, the sins of human kind.

And Thou hast borne them, Saviour meek! and therefore, unto Thee,
In humbleness, and gratitude, our hearts shall offered be         ;
And greenly, as the festal bough, that, on Thy altar, lies,
Our souls, our bodies, all be Thine, a living sacrifice!

Yet once again, Thy sign shall be, upon the heavens, displayed,
And earth, and its inhabitants, be terribly afraid, For, not in weakness, clad,
Thou com'st, our woes, our sins, to bear,
But girt with all Thy Father's might, His vengeance to declare.

The terrors of that awful day, Oh I who shall understand
Or, who abide, when Thou in wrath, shalt lift Thy holy hand?
The earth shall quake, the sea shall roar, the sun in heaven grow pale,
But Thou hast sworn, and wilt not change, Thy faithful shall not fail!

Then grant us, Saviour! so to pass our time, in trembling, here,
That when, upon the clouds of heaven, Thy glory shall appear,
Uplifting high our joyful heads, in triumph, we may rise,
And enter, with Thine angel train, Thy temple, in the skies!

Ye who have scorned each other,
Or injured friend or brother,
In this fast-fading year        ;
Ye who, by word or deed,
Have made a kind heart bleed,
Come gather here!

Let sinned against and sinning
Forget their strife's beginning,
And join in friendship now.
Be links no longer broken,
Be sweet forgiveness spoken
Under the Holly-Bough.

Ye who have loved each other,
Sister and friend and brother,
In this fast-fading year:
Mother and sire and child,
Young man and maiden mild,
Come gather here               ;

And let your heart grow fonder,
As memory shall ponder
Each past unbroken vow          ;
Old loves and younger wooing
Are sweet in the renewing
Under the Holly-Bough.

Ye who have nourished sadness,
Estranged from hope and gladness
In this fast-fading year         ;
Ye with o'erburdened mind,
Made aliens from your kind,
Come gather here.

Let not the useless sorrow
Pursue you night and morrow,
If e'er you hoped, hope now.
Take heart,— uncloud your faces,
And join in our embraces
Under the Holly-Bough.

Portal of the world's salvation,
lo, a Virgin pure and mild,
humble-hearted, high in station,
form of beauty undefiled,
crown of earth's anticipation,
comes the Mother-maid with child.

Here the serpent's power subduing,
see the bush unburned by fire,
Gideon's fleece of heaven's imbuing,
Aaron's rod of bright attire,
fair, and pure, and peace-ensuing,
spouse of Solomon's desire.

Jesse's branch received its flower,
Mother of Emmanuel,
portal sealed and mystic bower
promised by Ezekiel,
rock of Daniel's dream, whose power
smote, and lo, the image fell!

See in flesh so great a wonder
by the power of God ordained,--
him, whose feet all worlds lay under,
in a Virgin's womb contained           ;--
so on earth, her bonds to sunder,
righteousness from heaven hath rained.

Virgin sweet, with love o'erflowing,
to the hills in haste she fares      ;
on a kindred bestowing
blessing from the joy she bears      ;
waiting while with mystic showing
time the sacred birth prepares.

What fair joy o'ershone that dwelling,
called so great a guest to greet       ;
what her joy whose love compelling
found a rest for Mary's feet,
when, the bliss of time foretelling,
lo, the Voice and Word did meet!

God most high, the heaven's foundation,
ruler of eternity                       ;
Jesus, who for man's salvation
came in flesh to make us free           ;
Spirit, moving all creation,
evermore be praise to thee!

Sleep, sleep, mine Holy One!
My flesh, my Lord!--what name? I do not know
A name that seemeth not too high or low,
Too far from me or heaven.
My Jesus, that is best! that word being given
By the majestic angel whose command
Was softly as a man's beseeching said,
When I and all the earth appeared to stand
In the great overflow
Of light celestial from his wings and head.
Sleep, sleep, my saving One!

And art Thou come for saving, baby-browed
And speechless Being--art Thou come for saving?
The palm that grows beside our door is bowed
By treadings of the low wind from the south,
A restless shadow through the chamber waving:
Upon its bough a bird sings in the sun          ;
But Thou, with that close slumber on thy mouth,
Dost seem of wind and sun already weary.
Art come for saving, O my weary One?

Perchance this sleep that shutteth out the dreary
Earth-sounds and motions, opens on Thy soul
High dreams on fire with God                          ;
High songs that make the pathways where they roll
More bright than stars do theirs                      ; and visions new
Of Thine eternal nature's old abode.
Suffer this mother's kiss,
Best thing that earthly is,
To guide the music and the glory through,
Nor narrow in Thy dream the broad upliftings
Of any seraph wing!
Thus, noiseless, thus. Sleep, sleep, my dreaming One!

The slumber of His lips meseems to run
Through my lips to mine heart                   ; to all its shiftings
Of sensual life, bring contrariousness
In a great calm. I feel, I could lie down
As Moses did, and die, 1 --and then live most.
I am 'ware of you, heavenly Presences,
That stand with your peculiar light unlost,
Each forehead with a high thought for a crown,
Unsunned i' the sunshine! I am 'ware. Yet throw
No shade against the wall! How motionless
Ye round me with your living statuary,
While through your whiteness, in and outwardly,
Continual thoughts of God appear to go,
Like light's soul in itself! I bear, I bear,
To look upon the dropt lids of your eyes,
Though their external shining testifies
To that beatitude within, which were
Enough to blast an eagle at his sun.
I fall not on my sad clay face before ye        ;
I look on His. I know
My spirit which dilateth with the woe
Of His mortality,
May well contain your glory.
Yea, drop your lids more low,
Ye are but fellow-worshippers with me!
Sleep, sleep, my worshipped One!

We sate among the stalls at Bethlehem.
The dumb kine from their fodder turning them,
Softened their horned faces
To almost human gazes
Towards the newly born.
The simple shepherds from the star-lit brooks
Brought visionary looks,
As yet in their astonished hearing rung
The strange, sweet angel-tongue.
The magi of the East, in sandals worn,
Knelt reverent, sweeping round,
With long pale beards their gifts upon the ground,
The incense, myrrh and gold,
These baby hands were impotent to hold.
So, let all earthlies and celestials wait
Upon thy royal state!
Sleep, sleep, my kingly One!

I am not proud--meek angels, ye invest
New meeknesses to hear such utterance rest
On mortal lips,--"I am not proud"--not proud!
Albeit in my flesh God sent His Son,
Albeit over Him my head is bowed
As others bow before Him, still mine heart
Bows lower than their knees. O centuries
That roll, in vision, your futurities
My future grave athwart,--
Whose murmurs seem to reach me while I keep
Watch o'er this sleep,--
Say of me as the heavenly said,--"Thou art
The blessedest of women!"--blessedest,
Not holiest, not noblest,--no high name,
Whose height misplaced may pierce me like a shame,
When I sit meek in heaven!

For me--for me--
God knows that I am feeble like the rest!--
I often wandered forth, more child than maiden,
Among the midnight hills of Galilee,
Whose summits looked heaven-laden                 ;
Listening to silence as it seemed to be
God's voice, so soft yet strong--so fain to press
Upon my heart as heaven did on the height,
And waken up its shadows by a light,
And show its vileness by a holiness.
Then I knelt down most silent like the night,
Too self-renounced for fears,
Raising my small face to the boundless blue
Whose stars did mix and tremble in my tears.
God heard them falling after--with His dew.

So, seeing my corruption, can I see.
This Incorruptible now born of me
This fair new Innocence no sun did chance
To shine on, (for even Adam was no child,)
Created from my nature all defiled,
This mystery from out mine ignorance--
Nor feel the blindness, stain, corruption, more
Than others do, or I did heretofore?--
Can hands wherein such burden pure has been,
Not open with the cry, "Unclean, unclean!"
More oft than any else beneath the skies?
Ah King, ah Christ, ah Son!
The kine, the shepherds, the abased wise,
Must all less lowly wait
Than I, upon thy state!--
Sleep, sleep, my kingly One!

Art Thou a King, then? Come, His universe,
Come, crown me Him a king!
Pluck rays from all such stars as never fling
Their light where fell a curse.
And make a crowning for this kingly brow!--
What is my word?--Each empyreal star
Sits in a sphere afar
In shining ambuscade:
The child-brow, crowned by none,
Keeps its unchildlike shade.
Sleep, sleep, my crownless One!

Unchildlike shade!--no other babe doth wear
An aspect very sorrowful, as Thou.--
No small babe-smiles, my watching heart has seen,
To float like speech the speechless lips between  ;
No dovelike cooing in the golden air,
No quick short joys of leaping babyhood.
Alas, our earthly good
In heaven thought evil, seems too good for Thee:
Yet, sleep, my weary One!

And then the drear, sharp tongue of prophecy,
With the dread sense of things which shall be done,
Doth smite me inly, like a sword--a sword?--
(That "smites the Shepherd!") then I think aloud
The words "despised,"--"rejected,"--every word
Recoiling into darkness as I view
The darling on my knee.
Bright angels,--move not!--lest ye stir the cloud
Betwixt my soul and His futurity!
I must not die, with mother's work to do,
And could not live--and see.

It is enough to bear
This image still and fair--
This holier in sleep,
Than a saint at prayer:
This aspect of a child
Who never sinned or smiled--
This presence in an infant's face:
This sadness most like love,
This love than love more deep,
This weakness like omnipotence,
It is so strong to move!
Awful is this watching place,
Awful what I see from hence--
A king, without regalia,
A God, without the thunder,
A child, without the heart for play    ;
Ay, a Creator rent asunder
From His first glory and cast away
On His own world, for me alone
To hold in hands created, crying--Son!

That tear fell not on Thee
Beloved, yet Thou stirrest in Thy slumber!
Thou, stirring not for glad sounds out of number
Which through the vibratory palm-trees run
From summer wind and bird,
So quickly hast Thou heard
A tear fall silently?--
Wak'st Thou, O loving One?

Sleep, sweet babe! my cares beguiling:
Mother sits beside thee smiling        ;
Sleep, my darling, tenderly!
If thou sleep not, mother mourneth,
Singing as her wheel she turneth:
Come soft slumber, balmily!

"Welcome, friend! St. Nicholas, welcome!
Bring no rod for us to-night!
While our voices bid thee welcome,
Every heart with joy is light.

"Tell us every fault and failing ;
We will bear thy keenest railing
So we sing, so we sing:
Thou shalt tell us everything!

"Welcome, friend! St. Nicholas, welcome!
Welcome to this merry band!
Happy children greet thee, welcome!
Thou art gladdening all the land.

"Fill each empty hand and basket  ;
'T is thy little ones who ask it.
So we sing, so we sing:
Thou wilt bring us everything!"

When frost has burned the hedges black,
And children cannot sleep for cold          ;
When snow lies deep on the withered leaves,
And roofs are white from ridge to eaves     ;
When bread is dear, and work is slack,
Take pity on the poor and old!

The faggot and the loaf of bread
You could not miss would be their store.
Upon how little the old can live!
Give like the poor — who freely give.
Remember, when the fire burns red
The wolf leaves sniffing at the door.

And you whose lives are left forlorn,
Whose sons, whose hopes, whose fires have died,
Oh, you pitiful people old,
Remember this and be consoled —
That Christ the Comforter was born,
And still is born, in wintertide.

When the herds were watching
In the midnight chill,
Came a spotless lambkin
From the heavenly hill.

Snow was on the mountains
And the wind was cold,
When from God's own garden
Dropped a rose of gold.

When 'twas bitter winter,
Homeless and forlorn
In a star-lit stable
Christ the Babe was born.

Welcome, heavenly lambkin ;
Welcome, golden rose      ;
Alleluia, baby
In the swaddling clothes!

Like small curled feathers, white and soft,
The little clouds went by,
Across the moon, and past the stars,
And down the western sky:
In upland pastures, where the grass
With frosted dew was white,
Like snowy clouds the young sheep lay,
That first, best Christmas night.

The shepherds slept                     ; and, glimmering faint,
With twist of thin, blue smoke,
Only their fire's crackling flames
The tender silence broke—
Save when a young lamb raised his head,
Or, when the night wind blew,
A nesting bird would softly stir,
Where dusky olives grew—

With finger on her solemn lip,
Night hushed the shadowy earth,
And only stars and angels saw
The little Saviour's birth            ;
Then came such flash of silver light
Across the bending skies,
The wondering shepherds woke, and hid
Their frightened, dazzled eyes!

And all their gentle sleepy flock
Looked up, then slept again,
Nor knew the light that dimmed the stars
Brought endless Peace to men—
Nor even heard the gracious words
That down the ages ring—
The Christ is born! the Lord has come,
Good-will on earth to bring!

Then o'er the moonlit, misty fields,
Dumb with the world's great joy,
The shepherds sought the white-walled town,
Where lay the baby boy—
And oh, the gladness of the world,
The glory of the skies,
Because the longed-for Christ looked up
In Mary's happy eyes!

Holy angels and blest,
Through these Palms as ye sweep,
Hold their branches at rest,
For my Babe is asleep.

And ye, Bethlehem palm-trees,
As stormy winds rush
In tempest and fury
Your angry noise hush         ;--
Move gently, move gently,
Restrain your wild sweep      ;
Hold your branches at rest --
My Babe is asleep.

When icicles hang by the wall
And Dick the shepherd blows his nail,
And Tom bears logs into the hall,
And milk comes frozen home in pail    ;
When blood is nipt, and ways be foul,
Then nightly sings the staring owl
Tuwhoo!
Tuwhit! Tuwhoo! A merry note!
While greasy Joan doth keel the pot.

When all around the wind doth blow,
And coughing drowns the parson's saw,
And birds sit brooding in the snow,
And Marian's nose looks red and raw:
When roasted crabs hiss in the bowl—
Then nightly sings the staring owl
Tuwhoo!
Tuwhit! Tuwhoo! A merry note!
While greasy Joan doth keel the pot.

Now winter nights enlarge
The number of their hours,
And clouds their storms discharge
Upon the airy towers.
Let now the chimneys blaze,
And cups o'erflow with wine                        ;
Let well-tuned words amaze
With harmony divine.
Now yellow waxen lights
Shall wait on honey love,
While youthful revels, masques, and courtly sights
Sleep's leaden spells remove.

The time doth well dispense
With lovers' long discourse                     ;
Much speech hath some defence,
Though beauty no remorse.
All do not all things well:
Some, measures comely tread,
Some, knotted riddles tell,
Some, poems smoothly read.
The summer hath his joys,
And winter his delights                         ;
Though love and all his pleasures are but toys,
They shorten tedious nights.

Three kings went riding from the East
Through fine weather and wet            ;
"And whither shall we ride," they said,
"Where we ha' not ridden yet?"

"And whither shall we ride," they said,
"To find the hidden thing
That times the course of all our stars
And all our auguring?"

They were the Wise Men of the East,
And none so wise as they            ;
"Alas!" the King of Persia cried,
"And must ye ride away?

"Yet since ye go a-riding, sirs,
I pray ye, ride for me,
And carry me my golden gifts
To the King o' Galilee.

"Go riding into Palestine,
A long ride and a fair!"
"'Tis well!" the Mages answered him,
"As well as anywhere!"

They rode by day, they rode by night,
The stars came out on high,--
"And, oh!" said King Balthazar,
As he gazed into the sky,

"We ride by day, we ride by night,
To a King in Galilee               ;
We leave a king in Persia,
And kings no less are we.

"Yet often in the deep blue night,
When stars burn far and dim,
I wish I knew a greater King,
To fall and worship him.

"A king who should not care to reign,
But wonderful and fair                ;
A king--a king that were a star
Aloft in miles of air!"

"A star is good," said Melchior,
"A high, unworldly thing         ;
But I would choose a soul alive
To be my Lord and King.

"Not Herod, nay, nor Cyrus, nay,
Not any king at all                 ;
For I would choose a new-born child
Laid in a manger-stall."

"'Tis well," the black King Casper cried,
"For mighty men are ye                    ;
But no such humble king were meet
For my simplicity.

"A star is small and very far,
A babe's a simple thing        ;
The very Son of God himself
Shall be my Lord and King!"

Then smiled the King Balthazar     ;
"A good youth!" Melchior cried     ;
And young and old, without a word,
Along the hills they ride,

Till, lo! among the western skies
There grows a shining thing--
"The star! Behold the star," they shout ;
"Behold Balthazar's King!"

And, lo! within the western skies
The star begins to flit               ;
The three kings spur their horses on,
And follow after it.

And when they reach the king's palace,
They cry, "Behold the place!"
But, like a shining bird, the star
Flits on in heaven apace.

Oh they rode on, and on they rode,
Till they reached a lonely wold,
Where shepherds keep their flocks by night,
And the night was chill and cold.

Oh they rode on, and on they rode,
Till they reach a little town,
And there the star in heaven stands still
Above a stable brown.

The town is hardly a village,
The stable's old and poor,
But there the star in heaven stands still
Above the stable door.

And through the open door, the straw
And the tired beasts they see        ;
And the Babe, laid in a manger,
That sleepeth peacefully.

"All hail, the King of Melchior!"
The three Wise Men begin                 ;
King Melchior swings from off his horse,
And he would have entered in.

But why do the horses whinny and neigh?
And what thing fills the night
With wheeling spires of angels,
And streams of heavenly light?

Above the stable roof they turn
And hover in a ring,
And "Glory be to God on high
And peace on earth," they sing.

King Melchior kneels upon the grass
And falls a-praying there           ;
Balthazar lets the bridle drop,
And gazes in the air.

But Casper gives a happy shout,
And hastens to the stall                 ;
"Now, hail!" he cries, "thou Son of God,
And Saviour of us all."

RED wreaths
Hang in my neighbor’s window,
Green wreaths in my own.
On this day I lost my husband.
On this day you lost your boy.
On this day
Christ was born.
Red wreaths,
Green wreaths
Hang in Our Windows
Red for a bleeding heart,
Green for grave grass.
Mary, mother of Jesus,
Look down and comfort us.
You too knew passion            ;
You too knew pain.
Comfort us,
Who are not brides of God,
Nor bore God.
On Christmas day
Hang wreaths,
Red for new pain.
Green for spent passion.
